ACCT1101. Introduction to financial accounting (6 credits)
The course will cover the principles of double entry book-keeping, the interpretation of financial
statements, the issues raised by corporate regulation, and the use of management information for
decision making.
ACCT1112. Professional preparation programme (6 credits)
To prepare students for a career in professional accounting, this optional semester-long course provides
seminars/workshops on career opportunities, professional ethics, and develop interpersonal,
communication and time-management skills, as well as social events offering opportunities to interact
with accounting and business professionals. Pass/Fail grade.
ECON1210. Introductory microeconomics (6 credits)
An introduction to the basic concepts and principles of microeconomics – the study of demand and
supply, consumer theory, cost and production, market structure, incentives, and resource allocation
efficiency, political economy, and ethics and public policy.
ECON1220. Introductory macroeconomics (6 credits)
This course is an introduction to macroeconomics – the study of business cycle fluctuations and longrun economic growth. The course will first introduce students to the measurement of major
macroeconomic variables and the main issues in macroeconomics. It will then introduce students to
models that study the trend of the economy in the long run and the cyclical ups and downs of the
economy in the short run. Empirical evidence and the effects of fiscal and monetary policies will be
discussed along the way.
ECON1280. Analysis of economic data (6 credits)
This course studies the measurement and interpretation of economic variables, and how to model their
relationships using appropriate empirical methods. Topics include interpretation of headline statistics,
describing economic aggregates, modeling of economic relationships and drawing conclusions from
observations.
Mutually exclusive: IIMT1640 Probability and statistics for business; and
STAT1601 Elementary statistical methods; and
STAT1602 Business statistics; and
STAT1603 Introductory statistics; and
STAT2901 Probability and statistics: Foundations of actuarial science
Remarks: Not open to students taking or having taken STAT2601 Probability & statistics I.
BE143/523 amended
2
FINA1310. Corporate finance (6 credits)
This is an introductory finance course that develops the basic concepts and tools applicable to corporate
financial decisions. Two main tasks of financial managers are studied: project evaluation and financing
decisions. Specific topics include present value calculation, valuation of stocks and bonds, investment
criteria and capital budgeting, risk and return, cost of capital, and capital structure. Corporate ethics is
also incorporated in the discussions.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
Mutually exclusive: STAT3904 Corporate finance for actuarial science
IIMT1640. Probability and statistics for business (6 credits)
This course introduces fundamental concepts of probability and statistics. It helps students to understand
how to evaluate uncertainty using probability and conduct statistical inference. Students will learn how
to solve real world problems by simple Monte Carlo simulations and linear regressions.
Mutually exclusive: ECON1280 Analysis of economic data; and
STAT1602 Business statistics; and
STAT1603 Introductory statistics
IIMT2601. Management information systems (6 credits)
This course covers key concepts associated with management information systems: digital economy, ecommerce, information technology infrastructure, technology-business integration and the impact of
technology on society. Case studies and lectures will be used to shed light on these topics. Students will
also acquire hands-on knowledge and techniques using business software to practice formulating and
solving business solutions.
Mutually exclusive: BSIM4022 Management information systems
MGMT2401. Principles of management (6 credits)
This introductory course traces the evolution of the study and practice of management over this past
century, with particular focus on the landmark discoveries and lessons learned. The course aims to
develop students’ awareness of the nature of management processes and focuses on the following topics:
planning, organising, controlling, leading, communication and change management. The programme's
pedagogical design combines theoretical conceptualisation with interactive discussions, skill-building
experiential exercises and students’ presentations.
MKTG2501. Introduction to marketing (6 credits)
This course focuses on introducing core principles of marketing and covering key marketing concepts
and processes such as managing customer relationships, marketing planning, understanding customers,
competitors and marketplace, and developing marketing strategies (segmentation, innovation, and
positioning) and marketing programs (products/services/branding, pricing, channel, and marketing
communications). The course will be delivered via a blend of interactive class discussions, case
analyses, and a group project on a new product/service development.
3
ADVANCED LEVEL COURSES
ACCT2102. Intermediate financial accounting I (6 credits)
This course is the first of a series of two intermediate financial accounting subjects. It builds on the
foundation laid in the introductory accounting course to better equip students with the required
techniques in preparing and interpreting financial statements. It reviews the fundamental financial
accounting concepts and focuses on the detailed recording and reporting of important items relating to
the asset side of the balance sheet. It also examines the conceptual framework of accounting and
financial statement presentation. This course provides the prerequisite knowledge that will prepare
students for advanced accounting courses.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
ACCT2105. Introduction to management accounting (6 credits)
The theory and techniques involved in serving the accounting needs of management in decision making,
control, evaluation and motivational aspects.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
ACCT3103. Intermediate financial accounting II (6 credits)
This course is a continuation of Intermediate Financial Accounting I. Topics examined include debt
financing, equity financing, income taxes, leases, dilutive securities and earnings per share calculations,
and derivatives and hedging activities. While the primary emphasis will be on Hong Kong practice,
we will also discuss the accounting principles and standards based on the Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP), International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and Hong Kong
Financial Reporting Standards (HKFRS). Since 1993, IFRS have been the basis for all new standards
adopted in Hong Kong. In addition, IFRS are providing the framework for the development of
accounting standards in China.
Prerequisite: ACCT2102 Intermediate financial accounting I
ACCT3106. Management control (6 credits)
A course on advanced problems in managerial accounting and management information and reporting
systems for planning and control of operations. Particular attention will be given to problems associated
with large decentralised companies – divisional performance control, measurement and evaluation, and
transfer pricing.
Prerequisite: ACCT2105 Introduction to management accounting
ACCT3107. Hong Kong taxation (6 credits)
This course provides students with a fundamental understanding of the current law, principles and
practices of Hong Kong taxation. The concepts introduced in the course are heavily used in practice.
The course is helpful not only for personal tax compliance and planning but also for paving the way for
students to enter their future profession and the business world.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
4
ACCT3109. Auditing (6 credits)
Professional ethics and the social and legal responsibilities of auditors will be covered, as will basic
auditing concepts and principles; evidence; evaluation of internal control; and standard procedures and
methods of investigation.
Prerequisite: ACCT3103 Intermediate financial accounting II
ACCT3111. Corporate governance and social responsibility (6 credits)
In this course, students learn about the complex responsibilities facing business leaders today. They
will explore the use of accounting information and internal control in ensuring efficient and effective
operations, reducing the cost of capital, production and distribution, and complying with legal,
regulatory and corporate oversight requirements. Students will also learn about ethics and governance
systems that leaders can use to promote socially responsible conduct by organisations and their
employees, and how personal values can play a critical role in effective leadership.
ACCT3112. Accounting data management and analytics (6 credits)
This course is about descriptive and predictive analysis of data as it pertains to accounting and finance
professionals.
In the era of “big data,” the volume, pace, and complexity of data have made it difficult to understand
and use data. At the same time, the explosion of data has brought many opportunities for firms to get
deeper insights into many aspects of their businesses. To harness excessive information, data analytics
has become a must-have skill for all business managers and particularly accountants who often know
both internal and external data, better than their counterparts in other areas of the business. This course
will prepare students with fundamental analytics skills focused on accounting applications. Students
will also gain hands-on experience with data analysis.
Students should be aware that this is not a computer-skills course. However, it does require extensive
use of the computer as a tool which is expected for business analytic positions in the industry. Students
will spend significant portion of their time learning and using computerized information systems and
data analysis platforms. Some class assignments will involve the use of computer software.
This course is composed of two parts. In the first part, students will first be exposed to why analytics is
important in accounting professions and learn about how financial and accounting data is generated and
stored in modern Accounting Information Systems (AIS). Students will learn to build queries to pull
data from AIS or databases, learn to perform descriptive analytics using various data visualization
techniques, and identify potential problems and relevant issues. In the second part, students will learn
about entry to medium level predictive accounting models and their practical applications such as
performance forecasting and credit scoring. Students will learn to use a statistical computing software
(R) to perform the analysis.
Prerequisites: STAT1602 Business statistics; and
ACCT3103 Intermediate financial accounting II
5
ACCT3113. Accounting for business valuation and financial contracting: theory and application (6 credits)
This course provides a high-level view of what accounting is about and why and how it is important for
the real economy and financial markets. Going beyond the rules and procedures that are taught in other
accounting courses, this course takes the perspective of those who apply accounting information to
decision-making in business organizations and financial markets (i.e., analysts and investors, lenders,
the board of directors, regulators). Topics include the use of accounting information in business
valuation, investment strategies, debt contracts, and executive compensation. The course emphasizes
both practical techniques for how to properly use accounting information and the theoretical foundation
for the techniques (the why question).
Prerequisites: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance; and
ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1602 Business statistics or STAT1603 Introductory statistics
ACCT3114. Valuation using financial statements (6 credits)
The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the concepts of financial statement analysis, aiming
to provide students the basic skills and techniques to analyze financial statements for the application of
valuation. Students will learn how to evaluate accounting quality, firms’ financial performance, and
how to evaluate financial statements and perform rudimentary prospective and equity analyses. Students
will acquire knowledge on how to recast and adjust financial statements to estimate the intrinsic value
of the firm. Last students apply the knowledge and gain hand-on experience through group projects on
financial statement analysis.
Prerequisites: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance
ACCT3115. Financial reporting and analysis of financial institutions (6 credits)
This course focuses on (1) financial reporting and disclosure rules for financial institutions and financial
instruments they hold (interest rate risk disclosures, loan loss disclosures, fair value accounting for
financial instruments, securitization accounting, derivatives and hedge accounting, and market risk
disclosures); and (2) the financial statement analysis of banks and bank-like financial institutions (thrifts,
mortgage banks, and commercial banks). Analyzing these two aspects of a modern bank reveals much
about the strategies followed by the bank given the various regulations under which it operates.
The financial statements of financial institutions are increasingly based on fair value accounting and
their financial reports include increasingly extensive risk and estimation sensitivity disclosures. Both
fair value accounting and risk and estimation sensitivity disclosures are necessary ingredients for
financial reports to convey financial institutions’ risk and performance in today’s world of complex,
structured, value and risk-partitioning financial instruments and transactions. While financial
institutions often report imperfect (or worse) fair value measurements and risk and estimation sensitivity
disclosures, careful joint analysis of the information they do provide invariably yields important clues
about their risks and performance.
While this course is most relevant to students interested in financial institutions, much of the accounting
material also pertains to varying extent to other types of firms. For example, many firms securitize their
accounts receivable or hedge their commodity, interest rate, or foreign exchange risk using derivatives.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
6
ACCT4104. Advanced financial accounting (6 credits)
This course looks at the application of accounting theory to the preparation of accounting standards and
their implications for reporting purposes, particularly those related to the consolidation of group
accounts, asset valuation and the influence on income determination. Other topics may include current
cost accounting, income tax allocation, government entities and non-profit organisations.
Prerequisite: ACCT3103 Intermediate financial accounting II
ACCT4108. Advanced topics in auditing (6 credits)
This course extends the first Auditing course to further examine various advanced topics including
advanced auditing techniques, auditing for operations and efficiency, auditing web based information,
EDP auditing, environmental auditing, forensic accounting and contemporary issues of auditing.
Prerequisites: ACCT3109 Auditing; and
ACCT4104 Advanced financial accounting
ACCT4110. Advanced topics in taxation (6 credits)
This course provides students with a thorough and in-depth knowledge of the current law, principles
and practices of Hong Kong taxation. Students are required to apply tax principles, decided cases and
legislation to compliance matters and tax planning activities in Hong Kong. The course also covers
anti-avoidance provisions, cross border activities and international tax planning considerations. The
concepts introduced in the course are heavily used in practice. The course is helpful not only for tax
compliance and planning but also for paving the way for students to enter their future profession and
the business world.
Prerequisite: ACCT3107 Hong Kong taxation
ACCT4114. Accounting seminar (6 credits)
A course on (a) the nature of accounting theory and research and (b) topical accounting issues.
Prerequisite: ACCT3103 Intermediate financial accounting II
BUSI1802. Advanced business communication skills (6 credits)
This course aims at enhancing students’ communication skills and preparing them to meet the
communication requirements of today’s business world. Students will undertake the following:
attending lectures, participating in class discussion, reading and analyzing cases, developing a business
writing piece with good style, and presenting their analysis and research in selected business topics.
Special topics will be extracted from the following areas: interpersonal communication, organizational
communication, intercultural communication, conflict management and negotiation, persuasion,
business writing and presentation.
7
BUSI1805. International field trip (6 credits)
BUSI1805 International Field Trip is a required course for the BBA(IBGM) students aimed at providing
students with opportunity to gain international exposure and acquire the first-hand knowledge of
international business and global management. Students will study and explore a country/countries with
emerging international business opportunities in this course. Cultural activities and firm visits will be
arranged during the course period to engage students and raise awareness about cultural diversity and
to enhance an understanding of how culture impacts business practices in a particular country/countries.
Students will write reflections regarding their new cultural experiences and about what they have
learned. Based on the research theme of the year, students will work in a group to conduct research
analyses through literature review, firm visits, and interviews to explore global topics related to the
selected country/countries and will present their findings/recommendations on the issues related to
international business and global management.
Remarks: For BBA(IBGM) students only.
BUSI1806. Israeli entrepreneurial experience (6 credits)
Innovation has become one of the most important skills necessary to adapt to, and survive, in the
changing business environment. Israel values innovation and is a world leader in the number of startups per capita, and the home of dozens of multinational organizations’ R&D centres (like Intel,
Microsoft, etc.). Therefore, it is the perfect lens through which to study about building innovation.
This programme will provide a glimpse into the Israeli start-up ecosystem and will provide a sense of
how to grow such a culture. By understanding the essence of innovation and entrepreneurship, students
will be able to enhance their current business value proposition and create new business models to
address escalating human needs.
BUSI1807. Business consulting practicum (6 credits)
This course aims to provide an opportunity for students to gain hands-on consulting project experience
while rendering valuable service to the business community. The course operates on a team basis.
Students will work in groups on assigned business projects under the guidance of faculty teacher and
professional mentors. Business projects will mainly engage the SMEs (small and medium sized
enterprises) in Hong Kong.
Remarks: Students are selected individually by the instructor.
BUSI2811. Negotiation and conflict resolution (6 credits)
This course provides a systematic introduction of concepts, theories and practices, with a focus on
equipping students with toolkits of handling conflict and negotiation. The course content is composed
of two intimately related parts. The beginning part introduces the nature and types of conflict, conflict
escalation, and conflict resolution styles. The rest of the class sessions discuss the characteristics of
interest-based negotiation and negotiation strategies. Specifically, students will learn the building
blocks of negotiation, the differences between value-claiming and value-creating negotiation strategies,
and related topics in trust building, cultural difference in negotiation, emotions, power, persuasion, third
party intervention, negotiation ethics, etc. To enhance students’ effectiveness in writing and presenting,
which is a necessary skill of negotiation practice as well as for the quality of course assignments,
students will learn how to write negotiation planning, how to write reflection essay, and presentation
skills throughout the semester.
8
BUSI2812. Impact lab (6 credits)
This is a 6-credit experiential learning course that will give students an opportunity to work directly for
social ventures under the guidance of a faculty instructor and professional mentors. You should have
opportunities to manage tasks, solve real-life problems, and gain hands-on business experience, which will
strengthen your soft skills, help you implement academic business concepts in a practical way, and greatly
improve your ability to compete in the job market. The course will also offer you the opportunity to learn
about starting an impactful business by sharing theories and methods through short lectures, readings, and
videos, as well as real-life examples by our guest speakers. This component of the course will help you grasp
the essence of what building a company, especially in a social impact space, entails.
BUSI2813. Field experience in China’s business environment (6 credits)
This course aims to provide experiential learning in China business and the economy for year 1 or year
2 students in the Faculty of Business and Economics. Students will spend two weeks in Shanghai,
attending classes and guest lectures as well as visiting representative companies in important industries
and sectors there. The course will focus in the practical aspects of China business environment covering
both manufacturing and servicing sectors. By going through topics/issues of recent concern, obtaining
strategic insights via firm visits and attend sharing by senior management people, students are expected
to acquire in-depth knowhow of learnt topics. The structure and content of the course is designed to
align and integrate with other Faculty courses on China business and economy by focusing in the latest
business environment in China.
BUSI2814. Business ethics (6 credits)
The purpose of this course is to help you reach your full potential as an ethical leader in your home,
workplace, and community. You will likely face a variety of ethical challenges during your life. By
drawing on articles, readings, cases, our collective experience, lectures, class discussion, guest speakers,
and other material, we will explore ways to deal with such challenges. Most importantly, you should
leave this course with a deep belief that you have the ability to influence those around you through your
ethical leadership and decision-making. As such, this course will require you to reflect on your own
aspirations as you consider the type of influence you want to have as an ethical leader.
BUSI2815. Managing communication through social media (6 credits)
Students will learn current research and theories in the field of social media while honing their
communication skills in this medium.
Teaching and learning tools used to achieve better learning outcomes include online discussions
exploring current research and theories, class lectures and discussions, videos, and student-driven
communications on Moodle and other “test” sites.
Students in this class are expected to be prepared for class discussions regarding readings, cases and
online discussions, and participate both in class and online as is suitable for a social media course. A
successful learning experience depends on contributions from both the instructor and the students. Full
and active participation is critical for achieving the optimal learning outcome.
9
BUSI2816. Transformative business immersion in developing economies (6 credits)
This course is a total immersion experience into unfamiliar geography, economy, sociality and
environment. After a preparation period on campus at HKU, students will travel to a country in the
developing world. Students will live with local families and work with local small and micro-enterprises.
Students will work with these enterprises to improve their prospects and outcomes, focusing on basic
principles in areas such as good record keeping and effective promotion.
This course is designed to be mutually beneficial to both the students and to the families and
communities where they live and work. Students will gain experience in the practical application of
business theory, will forge new friendships with people they would never otherwise meet, will gain a
greater appreciation for the constraints and limitations in the development of emerging economies, and
will hopefully make a lasting difference in the lives of newfound friends and colleagues.
Remarks: Students are selected individually by the instructor.
BUSI2819. Persuasion and behavioural change (6 credits)
This course aims at providing a systematic introduction of concepts, theories and practices in persuasion,
from the perspectives of social psychology and communication, with a focus on equipping students with
the ability of applying persuasion knowledge in various business and interpersonal contexts. Classic
theories in persuasion, attitude change, and behavior change, together with practical frameworks will
be introduced before drawing connection to the business examples. Students will practice persuasion
via developing strategic planning for business cases and conducting persuasive writings and
presentations.
BUSI3711. New business generation – a strategic and operational approach (6 credits)
“New Business Generation - A Strategic and Operational Approach” is designed to equip students with
a practical understanding of how to develop a new business under a startup environment or within a
sizable organization in a real-world situation. The course will cover idea generation, business model
formulation, strategic planning, financial modelling, resource and operational planning, pitching to
external investor and/or internal management team, etc.
The course will integrate what the students have learnt via various business and management courses,
as well as applying them in a corporate scenario. Application of taught concepts / knowledge of
entrepreneurship, design thinking, product / service development, strategic planning, financial
forecasting, and/or marketing and promotion, etc. will be required throughout the course.
In order to enhance the practical aspects of the course, various senior industry professionals in the areas
of product development, strategic planning, marketing, finance, operation, venture capital, etc. will be
invited to conduct lecture, provide coaching and evaluate student presentation / business proposal.
Knowledge exchange will be a core component to enrich students’ overall learning experience of this
course.
BUSI3801. Business law (6 credits)
This course provides an introductory survey to the fundamentals and general principles of the law as it
interacts with individuals, business, and other institutions in society. During the course, students will
learn about different foundational areas of law that are key to being an informed business person and
more broadly, a contributing member of society. The course also seeks to equip students with a deeper
understanding of the processes by which laws are made, including both formal and informal, and the
influence that laws have on different stakeholders in society. Furthermore, this course assists students
with understanding and analyzing current events through a legal lens.
10
BUSI3803. Company law (6 credits)
The course is designed to help students develop knowledge and understanding of the main concepts,
principles, and rules of Hong Kong Company Law. Additionally, we will explore the economic and
business context of Company Law and in particular, the way in which the law seeks to strike a balance
between the interests of various stakeholders including companies, shareholders, creditors, and the
public. The course will also explore key principles of corporate governance. More broadly, students will
evaluate the role of companies in modern society.
BUSI3808. Global analysis team project (6 credits)
The primary objective of this course is to develop students’ capacity to understand global strategic issues
from business, economic, social, political and/or environmental perspectives. Students are also
expected to devise viable alternatives for dealing with the key issues discussed. They will partner with
students from overseas universities to work on a global analysis team project in their final year of study.
Remarks: For BBA(IBGM) students only.
BUSI3809. Leadership development programme (6 credits)
This course aims at enabling students to develop themselves as leaders of organisations and to embark
on paths of personal leadership development. The following concepts will be covered: motivation,
lifelong leadership development, personal leadership development plan, stress and adversity
management, peer mentoring, group dynamics, work and life balance as well as purpose-driven
leadership.
BUSI3810. Legal and ethical environment of global business (6 credits)
This course examines how law and ethics coincide with global business transactions today. It is
specifically designed for students who hope to become leaders and executives in Asia. We will discuss
broad legal principles and how they affect corporate strategy and operations, analysing several crossborder business transactions and court cases.
BUSI3811. Reading course (6 credits)
This course is designed for BBA/BBA(A&F) year 3 or 4 students. It consists of supervised reading and
written work. Students will specialize in one discipline under supervision of a faculty member of the
Faculty of Business and Economics. A written paper is required in lieu of examination.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1602 Business statistics or STAT1603
Introductory statistics
Remarks: Students intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building) together with the
approval from the proposed supervisor within the first two weeks of the semester.
Students are advised to meet with their supervisors at least once per two weeks. A
written paper must be completed and presented no later than the first day of the
assessment period for that semester.
11
ECON2210. Intermediate microeconomics (6 credits)
Preference, utility and consumer choices; choices under uncertainty, introduction to game theory;
theory of the firm; market structures; introduction to economics of information.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
a pass in MATH1009 Basic mathematics for business and economics or MATH1011
University mathematics I or MATH1013 University mathematics II or concurrent
registration in MATH1009 or MATH1011 or MATH1013
ECON2214. Games and decisions (6 credits)
The first part of the course starts with sequential games and introduces the concept of subgame perfect
equilibrium for solving sequential games. Then it introduces Nash equilibria through a series of
concepts: dominant strategy, successive elimination of dominated strategies, and the minimax approach
for simultaneous games. It also discusses the limitations of Nash equilibria and offers rationalizability
as an alternative equilibrium concept. This forms the basic theory of the course, which is used to analyze
repeated games and collective-action games in the second part of the course. Additionally, new solution
(evolutionary stability) and equilibrium concepts (perfect Bayesian equilibrium) are introduced to deal
with applications that involve imperfect rationality or imperfect information. Strategic moves and
mechanism design are potential optional topics of the course.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
Mutually exclusive: STRA3709 Applications of strategic thinking in business
ECON2216. Industrial organization (6 credits)
This course studies the pricing and output decisions of firms and the performance of the market under
various market structures. Topics include theories of oligopoly; product differentiation; the effects of
imperfect and asymmetric information; the examination of pricing practices such as price discrimination,
tie-in selling, and resale price maintenance; collusion and anti-competitive behaviours, and public
policies related to the promotion or restriction of competition.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2217. Economics of networks (6 credits)
The world has become more and more connected since the appearance of the modern Internet in the
early 1990s. The Internet allows buyers and sellers matched to each other directly or with the help of
intermediaries. In a more connected world, buyers (sellers) can reach more sellers (buyers) and
intermediaries can reach more buyers and sellers at the same time. It is not clear whether such change
strengthens or weakens the bargaining power of the parties involved. Graph theory and (noncooperative and cooperative) game theory are introduced in this course to shed light on these issues.
Graph theory can also help us understand link analysis and Web search. Building on this, game theory
is used to provide an analysis of how sponsored search markets work. Other topics covered by the
course include: information cascades, network effects, power laws and rich-get-richer phenomena.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2220. Intermediate macroeconomics (6 credits)
Theories of income, employment, and the price level; analysis of secular growth and business
fluctuations; introduction to monetary and fiscal policy.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
12
ECON2223. Public finance (6 credits)
Study of the role of government in the economy, using microeconomic theory. The course covers
public expenditure analysis and methods of financing government expenditures. It explores the
underlying theory of welfare economics as well as the economic effects of public policy such as public
sector pricing, expenditure and tax policies.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2225. Economics of population changes (6 credits)
Fertility and mortality rates changed drastically in many parts of the world. This course examines these
demographic changes, their causes and consequences, and related policy issues. We first look at trends
in world population and introduce fundamental demographic concepts of mortality, fertility,
immigration and age structure. We then discuss economic consequences of demographic changes,
including the demographic dividend, saving and retirement decisions, and human capital accumulation.
We also examine economic causes of population changes. Finally, we examine policy issues related to
demographic changes, such as retirement pension and health care reform.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
ECON2226. Chinese economy (6 credits)
This course provides a general introduction of Chinese economy since 1949 with emphasis on the era
of transition from a planned economy to a more market driven one. It aims to help students understand
the development and transition of economy in China, the working of major market mechanism, as well
as related issues that China encounters. Basic economic principles are used to explain the economic
issues of modern China.
Specifically, this course will start from an historical overview of Chinese economy. Then it will talk
about the economic reform, followed by the reform of firms and household behaviors that are specific
to China. Next, it will focus on two important markets: financial market and housing market, focusing
on the market mechanism, function of major players, and issues/concerns that may hinder economic
development. Besides that, this course will also cover the topic about the interactions between China
and the world by focusing on the international trade and foreign direct investments. Finally, this course
will have an in-depth discussion of the development of Chinese economy with specific emphasis on
driving forces, obstacles, and problems associated.
ECON2232. Economics of human resources (6 credits)
This course studies the allocation of human resources through the labour market and the utilisation of
human resources inside the firm. Issues related to investment in human capital, wage determination,
labour force participation, worker mobility, hiring decisions and other personnel practices are examined.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2233. The economics of law (6 credits)
Economic analysis applied to law. Topics may include: efficiency of law, rules of liability, tort rights
and remedies, criminal sanction, legislative processes as resource allocating and income distributing
mechanisms.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
13
ECON2234. Transportation economics (6 credits)
Microeconomics applied to transportation. The cost-benefit approach to urban transportation includes
topics such as optimal pricing and infrastructure investment, consumer's surplus and quasi-rents, peak
load and cost allocation problems, economies of scale and dis-economies of scope, mode choice and
value of time.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2249. Foreign trade and investment in China (6 credits)
Built upon contemporary scholarly work on international economics, economics of multinational
enterprises and international business, this course presents a set of tools, concepts, and perspectives to
help students comprehend key issues in China's foreign trade and investment and make related business
decisions. This course contains several major themes, including:
(a) What opportunities does the emergence of the Chinese economy offer to foreign firms?
(b) Whether and how should a foreign firm be involved in the Chinese economy?
(c) How to understand China’s trade?
(d) How to manage international trade with China?
(e) How to manage direct investment projects in China and compete successfully in the China
market?
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
ECON2252. Theory of international trade (6 credits)
This course deals with economic issues which are related to many countries. It provides students with
global perspectives on economic and business decisions. Topics include why countries trade, how they
trade, who benefits and who loses from trade, and what are the best trade policies. We also discuss
recent globalization issues in this class.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
ECON2253. International macroeconomics (6 credits)
The course is an introduction to an evolving and growing literature on international finance. Topics
covered in the course include the international monetary system, the concept of balance of payments,
theories of balance of payments, parity conditions, models of exchange rate determination, forwardlooking market instruments (forward, futures, and options markets), Eurocurrency markets, and
financial crises.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
14
ECON2255. The economic system of Hong Kong (6 credits)
This course provides a basic understanding of the salient aspects of the Hong Kong economy. The
emphasis will be on both economic analysis and institutional arrangements of the major economic
sectors and related policies. Attention will be given to topics of recent public concern. The course begins
with some preliminary discussion on historical development and national income accounting. It then
goes on to the following topics: the monetary system and exchange rate regime, the banking sector and
financial markets, the labour market, income distribution, external trade and foreign investment,
economic relations with the Mainland and the region, public finance, the housing market and
competition policy. These are all important aspects of the Hong Kong economy, but the extent of
coverage of each will depend on the amount of time available.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
ECON2257. Trade, investment and development in APEC economies (6 credits)
In this course, students will examine various important and timely issues facing several Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies. In particular, the international trade and foreign
investment relationships among APEC members will be studied. Common theories and experiences
of economic development and growth as well as innovation activities will also be highlighted.
Particular attention will be paid to the special role of Hong Kong, China in the economic integration of
APEC. Some of the APEC economies to be studied include Japan, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea,
the People’s Republic of China, Chinese Taipei, the United States, Mexico, Russia, and Indonesia.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2262. Economic development (6 credits)
Why do countries remain poor? This course provides an overview of major topics in the study of
economic development: the branch of economics which studies the determinants of income growth and
poverty reduction. Each week, we will focus on a particular barrier to economic development and,
through a combination of economic theory and empirical evidence, seek to build a better understanding
of the type of policies and interventions conducive to development. The goal is not to provide an
exhaustive coverage of all topics but to expose students to current issues and debates in development
economics.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics and ECON1220 Introductory
macroeconomics; or
GHAD1002 Introductory economics and finance
ECON2264. Political economy of development in China (6 credits)
This course is designed to provide a solid understanding of the political forces shaping the outcomes of
China’s economic development from the early twentieth century up until the present day. Topics
covered include the fall of the last imperial dynasty, the communist revolution, property institutions
under socialism, the political determinants of the Great Leap Famine and Cultural Revolution, and not
the least the institutional foundations and outcomes of economic reforms. To fully benefit from this
course, students are expected to have acquired a solid background in applied econometrics.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics
15
ECON2266. Urban economics (6 credits)
Urban economics is the study of the location choices of firms and households. It examines the question
of the where of economic activity, a question largely ignored by the other branches of economics.
Topics include the growth and development of cities; land use within cities; urban transportation;
housing and public policy; urban problems such as pollution, poverty and crime; and market forces
determining the locations of ports and other transshipment points.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2271. Finance in history and society (6 credits)
This course focuses on the social impact of financial market development from a historical perspective.
In particular, we will examine how human societies have innovated to deal with the challenges of risk
events such as natural disasters, climate shocks, epidemic viruses, and wars. Our goal is to develop a
risk-mitigation perspective on the evolution of human civilizations so that we can better understand
how human civilizations have evolved the way they did and that as investors and professionals, we can
better foresee future growth areas in frontier, emerging, and developed markets. The course coverage
addresses what finance does for society and how it works to liberate the individual and facilitate
freedom.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2272. History of economic thought (6 credits)
This course is a survey of fundamental developments in economic thought since the 18th century, with
emphasis on works in English. The first part of the lectures reviews the writings of classical
economists like Smith, Ricardo, and Mill, with an aside on Marx. The second part goes on to discuss
the development of neoclassical theory from Jevons to Marshall and the Cambridge School, and
mathematical economists like Fisher, Pareto, and Wicksell. If time allows, we will trace the evolution
of macroeconomics from the time of Keynes.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2273. Economic history of China (6 credits)
This course introduces the economic history of China between the 10th century and 1949. The main
topics include Confucianism, imperial examination, gentry, autarky, modern transition, and long-term
development. Particular attention will be paid to the possible factors underlying the Needham Puzzle—
why the scientific and industrial revolution did not occur in China. To this end, the course will employ
the comparative analysis between China and the West, and resort to historical data sets and statistical
approach for causal inference. In addition to broaden students’ horizon in Chinese economic history,
the course is also aimed to cultivate sense and skills of examining general economic issues in the
historical contexts.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2275. The political economy of law and public policy (6 credits)
The course provides a theoretical and empirical understanding of the political economy of law and
public policy making, examines how law and regulation affects with policy outcomes, and familiarizes
students with economic concepts and tools useful for analyzing policy issues. Topic covered include,
public goods, externalities, monopolies, regulation, rent seeking, law and economics, law enforcement,
legal systems and public bureaucracy.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
16
ECON2276. State, law and the economy (6 credits)
Economic analysis is applied to the study of the evolving relationship between the state, the law and the
economy. Topics covered include: paradox of voting, collective action, voting and elections, interest
groups, agenda manipulation, dictator’s dilemma, constitutional commitment, property rights and
institutional change, and growth and stagnation of backward and modern economies.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2280. Introductory econometrics (6 credits)
Econometrics is the branch of economics that formulates statistical methodology for use in analyzing
economic data. Consequently, the objective of this course is to prepare students for basic empirical
work in economics. In particular, topics will include multiple regression analysis, estimation and
hypothesis testing, functional form specification, time series models, and limited dependent variable
models. Students will have the opportunity to use actual economic data to test economic theories.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or MATH1853 Linear algebra, probability and
statistics or STAT1601 Elementary statistical methods or STAT1602 Business statistics
or STAT1603 Introductory statistics or STAT2601 Probability & statistics I or
STAT2901 Probability & statistics: Foundations of Actuarial Science
Mutually exclusive: STAT3614 Business forecasting; and
STAT3907 Linear models and forecasting
ECON2284. Mathematical methods in economics (6 credits)
The main emphasis of the course is to explain the mathematical structure of some undergraduate level
economic theories, in terms of the way in which each particular mathematical assumption is translated
into its economic counterpart. The course covers multi-variable unconstrained maximization,
constrained maximization, comparative statics, and a brief introduction to some dynamic economic
models.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2285. Mathematical economics (6 credits)
Modern economic theory treated mathematically. Topics may include: applications of optimization to
choice theory, applications of the implicit function theorem to comparative statics, applications of
differential and difference equations to stability of equilibria, applications of linear mathematics and
fixed point theorems to Leontief and Arrow-Debreu models, and applications of optimal control theory
and dynamic programming to certainty and stochastic dynamic optimization models.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
ECON2292. Current economic affairs (6 credits)
This seminar-style course is designed to train students to analyse economic problems of the day,
particularly those relating to the Hong Kong economy. Students are expected to conduct supervised
research on current economic problems and to lead and participate in classroom discussions.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
17
ECON3215. Uncertainty and information (6 credits)
This course examines the effects of uncertainty and imperfect information on individual decision
making and on market equilibrium. Topics may include the expected utility hypothesis, risk bearing
and risk sharing, search, adverse selection, signaling, contract theory, mechanism design, information
acquisition and information transmission.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics
ECON3219. Selected topics in price theory (6 credits)
This course acts as a platform to provide an overview of topics that are conceived to be pivotal in
economics. The topics are essentially micro-based, but have applications in other disciplines like
macroeconomics and finance. Specific topics are picked by the instructor. Previous examples
include venture capital and private equity, antitrust, competition policy, property rights, theory of the
firm, incomplete contracting, financial contracting, bankruptcy, and corporate voting.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics
ECON3220. Research on Chinese economy (6 credits)
This is an empirical economic research course for undergraduate students. This course provides a
general introduction to the basic methods and principles for undertaking economic research and
evaluation on major economic issues in China. In addition to the basic methods, this course also
provides "the state of the art" in research and analysis through reviewing major studies about the
business and economy in China. This course is designed to equip students to conduct academic research
or carry out policy studies on the economic topics related to China.
ECON3221. Macroeconomic analysis for emerging markets economies (6 credits)
Compared to industrial countries, emerging market economies have tended to be much more unstable,
with more severe boom-bust cycles, episodes of high inflation, and balance of payment crises. This
course applies macroeconomic models to explain the macroeconomic performance of emerging market
economies and demonstrates how the aforementioned salient features of emerging market economies
affect their macroeconomic performance.
Prerequisite: ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics
ECON3222. Monetary economics (6 credits)
This course discusses the role of money in the economy, including how money affects inflation, interest
rates and output and employment in both the static and dynamic contexts. Related topics are theories
of money demand and supply, the conduct of monetary policy, rules vs. discretion, adaptive and rational
expectations, time inconsistency, origin of money, and electronic means of payments.
Prerequisite: ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics
18
ECON3223. Credit, bubbles and the macroeconomy (6 credits)
The first half of course is about the optimal allocation of resources across different periods. We study
households’ consumption and saving decisions, and firms’ capital investment. We introduce the
intertemporal Euler equations to analyze the trade-off. We emphasize the implications of credit market
imperfections. In the second half, we consider the market equilibrium. We study how changes in one
market spill over to the others using the general equilibrium framework. We begin with capital
misallocation due to credit constraints and study its effects on the labor market and productivity. We
then introduce the overlapping generations framework, in which markets in different periods are interconnected. We discuss why asset bubbles may arise and persist, even though all investors are aware of
the bubbles. We discuss both theoretical models and empirical evidence along the way.
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics; and
ECON2280 Introductory econometrics or ECON3284 Causal inference or concurrent
registration in ECON2280 or ECON3284
ECON3224. Health economics (6 credits)
This course applies the tools of economic analysis to issues about the organization, delivery, and
financing of health care. Topics include (but are not restricted to) the following: demand for health,
for health care, and for health insurance; supply of health-care services---physicians, hospitals, drugs,
medical technology; and health-care policies, systems, and reforms.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics
ECON3225. Big data economics (6 credits)
This course introduces students to fundamental ideas, important methods and popular techniques in big
data analysis and machine learning. Combining statistical theory, computational tools, and hands-on
experience with real data, this course will provide students with a solid basis for handling big data in
economics, finance, and management.
The primary focus of this course is on application instead of methodological rigor. Hence, the use of
mathematics will be limited to an elementary level. However, students are expected to have a strong
background in statistics and/or econometrics. In particular, the course will assume that participants have
an understanding of statistical inference using t-tests and have prior experience of interpreting the
results of multiple linear regression. We will review these topics briefly during the course.
Because of the emphasis on hands-on experience, students are expected not to be scared by data and
coding. Previous experience with statistical software and knowledge about computer programming is
an advantage but not required. Homework assignments are designed to familiarize students with the
necessary programing language. For programing, we will use the statistical package R via a front-end
called RStudio. Both R and RStudio are free and open source.
Prerequisite: ECON2280 Introductory econometrics or ECON3284 Causal inference
ECON3229. Topics in macroeconomics (6 credits)
This course provides students with an up-to-date account of the theory and practice of modern
macroeconomics. The following areas that have shaped modern macroeconomic research will be
covered: real business cycle theory, endogenous growth theory, and new Keynesian theories of labour
markets, asset markets and sticky prices. Other selected topics on fiscal and monetary policy will also
be discussed.
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics
19
ECON3232. Environmental economics (6 credits)
This course is about environmental economics with an emphasis on policies that seek to mitigate the
impacts of environmental problems. We will connect microeconomic theories with real world
environmental policy applications. The course begins with an overview of microeconomic theories that
are particularly relevant to environmental regulations; then it moves on to the key topics in
environmental economics and policies. Particular issues include market failure, externality, common
goods and public goods, valuation of non-market goods, environmental regulations, renewable and
nonrenewable resource management, air pollution, water pollution, and economics of climate change.
The objective of this course is to develop an understanding of environmental problems from an
economist’s point of view.
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2280 Introductory econometrics
ECON3233. Data analytics in digital economy (6 credits)
This course will explore the main features of the digital economy, and a number of related e-competition
and regulatory issues. The digital technologies create or enable radically new business opportunities
and shape the ways they operate. Such revolution also reshaped the market structures and their dynamics
of traditional businesses like publishing, entertainment, and banking. Therefore, it is crucial to
understand how the Internet, sharing economy, social networks, Big Data, and mobile communications
can work and create values in the digital society. The course aims to introduce the conceptual
foundations for understanding the relations between various parties and agents in the digital economy.
The course focuses on two aspects throughout various topics. One views the topics from the policyoriented standpoint - whether business practices and contracts in a digital economy may depart from
efficient behavior, and in which cases they may be beneficial or detrimental to society. The other focus
of the course is on how data analytics can help analyze the digital business models and be applied on
cases, despite the usefulness of concepts, models, and economic principles.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics or equivalent
ECON3234. Behavioural economics (6 credits)
This course provides students an overview of research in behavioral economics, which incorporates
insights from psychology on human behavior, with and without social interactions, into economic
analysis. The topics we will cover include: decision making under uncertainty, prospect theory,
reference dependence, intertemporal choice, social preferences, and bounded rationality. We will relate
theories to applications including consumer choice, saving behavior, procrastination, labor supply,
finance, and policy making.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics
Co-requisite: MATH1013 University mathematics II
ECON3235. Economics of education and human capital (6 credits)
Human capital accounts for more than half the world’s savings, wealth, and income. This course
introduces students to foundational and current literature in three broad areas: First, we consider the
demand for human capital by parents, children, and adults, the financing of investment, and portfolio
choice with human capital. Second, we consider the production function for human capital, and the role
of environmental, household, and classroom inputs. Third, we study the supply side for classroom inputs
in particular, with a focus on teachers and markets for education. Throughout, we will emphasize
empirical evidence and methods, and policy examples.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1603 Introductory statistics or
equivalent
20
ECON3243. Capital theory (6 credits)
General equilibrium theory involving time under certainty conditions. The concepts of full
information, stationary state, and steady state. Assumptions about information costs, transaction costs
and complete markets. Fisher's separation theorem. Theory of consumption over discrete and
continuous time. Theory of production over discrete and continuous time. Determination of general
equilibrium over time. Intertemporal prices and interest rates.
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics
ECON3262. Inequality and growth (6 credits)
Inequality and growth are always among the most important topics in economics and the most pressing
issues of our times as well. Widening income and wealth gap between the rich and the poor is not only
experienced by developed economies like the United States, but also by emerging economies like China.
Particularly, Hong Kong is one of the most unequal cities in the world, which desperately calls for
policies to tackle its worsening income and wealth gap. However, policies that reduce the inequality
can sometimes hurt the efficiency, thus the economic growth. This requires extra painstakingness when
policy makers are designing the policies. This course focuses on the relationship between inequality
and growth, which consists of three major parts: data, model, and policy. We will start with empirical
facts on inequality issues in economies over the world, in particular, U.S., China, and Hong Kong. Then
we will revisit two-period Solow growth model so that we can build up the infinite-horizon Solow
growth model and heterogeneous agent model to set up our framework to learn inequality and growth.
Finally, we will use the model and empirical techniques we learn to provide policy guidance that can
be used to deal with inequality issues and stimulate economic growth.
Prerequisites: ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1601 Elementary statistical methods or
STAT1602 Business statistics or STAT1603 Introductory statistics or STAT2601
Probability & statistics I or STAT2901 Probability & statistics: Foundations of
Actuarial Science or equivalent; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics
ECON3272. The political economy of globalization (6 credits)
With the rapid development in international trade, cross-border investment and immigration,
globalization has profound implications on the international landscape of politics, while the political
economy in turn affects the making of policies related to globalization. This course provides a
theoretical framework to analyze the connection between the political economy and globalization. It
covers topics such as the recent rise in protectionism, the refugee crisis, multinational firm tax avoidance,
interest group politics and lobbying and many more. Combining economic theories and real-world case
studies, this course will equip you with the skills to analyze new issues in global political economy and
new policies related to globalization.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics or equivalent
Remarks: ECON2252 Theory of international trade is useful but not required.
ECON3283. Economic forecasting (6 credits)
This course introduces basic techniques in forecasting economic structural relationships. Topics
include smoothing, filters, ARIMA models, unit roots and stochastic trends, vector autoregressions,
cointegration and error correction, regime switching, volatility, diagnostics, model selection, forecast
evaluation and combination.
Prerequisite: ECON2280 Introductory econometrics
Mutually exclusive: STAT4601 Time series analysis
21
ECON3284. Causal inference (6 credits)
This course introduces students to fundamental ideas and important methods in causal inference.
Combining statistical theory, scientific principles of research design, and hands-on experience with real
data, this course will provide students with a solid basis for being good consumers and practitioners of
empirical research in economics and other quantitative social sciences. The course will draw on
applications from development, labor, and business economics with particular attention to policy
evaluation. Other than methodology and computational skills, students will also learn how to think
critically through guided reading of original academic papers and extensive class discussion.
The primary focus of this course is on application instead of methodological rigor. Hence, the use of
mathematics will be limited to elementary algebra and probability. However, students are expected to
have taken introductory courses in econometrics/statistics and microeconomics. Because of the
emphasis on hands-on data experience, students are expected not to be scared by data and coding.
Previous experience with statistical software and knowledge about computer programming is an
advantage but not required. Homework assignments are designed to familiarize students with the
necessary programing language.
We will use the statistical package R via a front-end called RStudio. Both R and RStudio are free and
open source.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1602 Business statistics or STAT1603
Introductory statistics or STAT2601 Probability and statistics I or equivalent
ECON3293. Reading course (6 credits)
This course consists of supervised reading and written work. Candidates may specialize in one topic
under the supervision of faculty members. Examples of topics are: the problem of social cost,
investment in human capital, general equilibrium theory, empirical methods in international trade,
international monetary relations, theories of saving and the East Asian economies, and current economic
problems of Hong Kong.
Candidates must submit the title of their project within the first two weeks of the semester for approval
by the BEcon/BEcon&Fin Programme Director. An original project paper is required in lieu of a
written paper in the Examination. The project paper must be completed and presented not later than
the first day of the assessment period for that semester. Candidates shall submit a statement that the
project paper represent their own work (or in the case of joint work, a statement countersigned by their
co-worker(s), which shows the degree of their work) undertaken after the registration in the course.
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics; and
ECON2280 Introductory econometrics
Remarks: Candidates intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building).
22
ECON4200. Senior seminar in economics and finance (6 credits)
This course applies core theoretical knowledge in economics and finance acquired throughout the
undergraduate curriculum to research a real issue. The student may select and match core theoretical
concepts with significant applications in the world, which could be of local, regional and global
relevance, both contemporary and historical. The selection will include an application of these concepts
to either the making of public policy or the strategic management of the firm. The choice of research
topic should be selected to help students consolidate and integrate the concepts and tools learned in
economics and finance through an analysis of the nature of the problem, its causes and consequences,
the choice of feasible solutions, their tradeoffs, and also normative and political economy considerations.
Prerequisites: ECON2280 Introductory econometrics; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis and FINA2322 Derivatives; or
ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics and ECON2220 Intermediate
macroeconomics
Remarks: Open only to Year 4 students majoring in economics or finance.
ECON4211. Advanced microeconomics (6 credits)
This course is designed to provide students with the analytical tools required to study economic
decisions and strategic behavior at an advanced level. It covers decision theory, game theory, and
mechanism design. The course is particularly recommended for students who are considering graduate
study in economics.
The first part of the course covers the theory of individual decision making. Most economic theories
start from a model of individual decision making and then use it as a building block to model interactions
between agents, groups of agents and firms, the economy as a whole, etc. In this part, we will study a
suite of standard models, understand some implicit assumptions behind them, and discuss critiques of
these models.
The second part of the course covers game theory, which is concerned with analyzing strategic
interactions among individuals. Game theory seeks to provide models of conflict and cooperation that
are relevant in a large class of situations basic to almost all social sciences. It offers insight into
economic, political or social situations in which individuals have different goals and preferences. The
basic assumptions of game theory are that decision-makers pursue well defined objectives (they are
rational) and take into account their knowledge or expectations of other decision-makers' behavior (they
are strategic).
The third part of the course covers topics in mechanism design, which explores how to apply gametheoretic concepts studied insofar to design institutions. Mechanism design is the study of how to design
rules or mechanisms to achieve the social planner’s desired objectives in strategic situations where
individuals act rationally. This understanding is crucial for designing effective institutions in many areas,
such as auctions, voting systems, and contracts, which are relevant to real-world situations.
Prerequisite: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics
23
ECON4214. Advanced game theory (6 credits)
Game Theory is the standard tool to analyze the behavior of agents in strategic situation and is widely
used in many fields including economics, finance, biology, political science, etc. The course is an
intermediate course in game theory. It builds upon basic knowledge of game theory as in the course
Games and Decisions (ECON2214), although not all material of ECON2214 is a pre-requisite. To this
end, it is highly advantageous to be familiar with ideas such as Nash equilibrium, mixed strategies,
dominated strategies.
Game theory is a way of thinking about strategic situations whether they occur in economics, in politics,
in relationships, in evolution, in sports, in war, in law, or in life.
The first part of the course will delve deeper into the analysis of dynamic (also known as sequential)
games, and cover topics such as hold-up problems, Stackelberg competition, reputation, bargaining,
wars of attrition, and repeated games.
The second part of the course will present further applications of game theory that have been particularly
influential in the history of economic theory, such as median voter theory, matching, mechanism design,
and behavioral/psychological game theory. The topics covered in the second part may be adjusted to
the students’ prior knowledge.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
MATH1009 Basic mathematics for business and economics or MATH1011 University
mathematics I or MATH1013 University mathematics II
ECON4221. Advanced macroeconomics (6 credits)
This course provides an introduction to advanced macroeconomics and its application to real-world
issues. Students will learn to analyze macroeconomic problems from different perspectives and
understand the tools and techniques used to address them. The emphasis will be on the microeconomic
foundations and decisions that underlie the behavior of aggregate variables. Additionally, students will
learn how to connect economic theories to data and become familiar with the latest research topics in
macroeconomics. Basic knowledge of optimization (ECON2285 or equivalent) and ordinary differential
equations is recommended but not a pre-requisite.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
ECON1220 Introductory macroeconomics; and
MATH1009 Basic mathematics for business and economics or equivalent
ECON4294. Dissertation (12 credits)
Candidates may write a dissertation under the supervision of faculty members. Topics offered may
vary from year to year, depending on the research interests of the lecturer. A satisfactory dissertation
may be offered in lieu of two written papers in the Examination.
Candidates must submit the title and an outline of their dissertation for approval by the
BEcon/BEcon&Fin Programme Director not later than the last day of the revision period in the first
semester. The dissertation shall be completed and presented not later than the first day of the
assessment period for the second semester. (Note: The course extends over two semesters.
Candidates must enroll in the first semester.)
Prerequisites: ECON2210 Intermediate microeconomics; and
ECON2220 Intermediate macroeconomics; and
ECON2280 Introductory econometrics; and
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or above at the time of enrolment
Remarks: Open only Year 4 students majoring in Economics.
Candidates intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building).
24
FBEC2001. China’s business and marketing (6 credits)
This course aims to equip students with an in-depth understanding and first-hand experience of the
current business environment in China, with the focus in two of the foremost international business
centers in Asia: Hong Kong and Shanghai. Students will have close contact with guest speakers from
senior management of leading companies in the two cities. They will also acquire personal experience
of a variety of Chinese culture and society, and develop truly international perspectives with an exposure
to China market.
FBEC2002. Field experience in Chinese economy: implications for global business (6 credits)
As complex as China’s economy, no course can cover all aspects of it. This course will focus on the
fundamental institutions of the Chinese economy, its reforms and transition towards a market economy,
and major economic developments since the reforms in 1978. There is no official textbook for this
course. Every class will feature one topic of the Chinese economy, and students are required to go
through certain reading materials (mainly sections of academic papers) before class.
By highlighting several topics, this course aims to help students understand China’s economic reforms,
opening up, and development since the 1970s. The economic institutions behind the economic
development will be analyzed in details. After the course, students are expected to come up with their
own answers to why China can maintain high growth rate in the past 40 years and why the development
is going to be slowed down in the future. Besides that, this course will guide students to apply basic
economic theories and tools to analyze contemporary economic issues in China. Finally, through inclass discussion and group presentation, this course aims to improve students’ communication and
teamwork skills.
FBEC2003. Creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship in China I (6 credits)
This course provides students with a comprehensive study of economics, innovation, and
entrepreneurship in the context of business practices in the Greater Bay Area in China. It aims to build
up students’ understanding of basic knowledge about innovation and entrepreneurship, the importance
of innovation in promoting economic development in China, as well as the economic rationales of
entrepreneurial activities related to innovation. Specific focus is given to (1) general concepts of
innovation, entrepreneurship and economy in China; (2) the economics behind innovation,
entrepreneurial activities, as well as the interrelationship in between; (3) the environment and culture
for effectively promoting the innovation for the firms.
This course combines lectures, discussions, case studies, and group work on pre-visit preparation.
Students will be exposed to various opportunities to apply the concept and principles of economics in
analysing the issues in the innovation economy, exploring the business opportunities and searching for
best business strategies from the perspective of entrepreneurs and managers. Students who are interested
about the practical aspects of innovation and entrepreneurship, are recommended to take the course of
Creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship in China II.
Workshops, visits and interactive sessions with guest speaker will be arranged during the course period
to engage students and enhance their understanding about the various topics and issues in related to
innovation and entrepreneurship.
25
FBEC2004. Creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship in China II (6 credits)
This course is to provide students with a comprehensive study of economics, innovation, and
entrepreneurship in the context of business practices in the Greater Bay Area in China (Guangdong
Province, Hong Kong and Macau). It aims at developing students’ understanding of the strategy and
challenge of the entrepreneurial process in innovation, the practices of innovation and strategic interrelationship among Hong Kong and other cities in Greater Bay Area, as well as the global vision for the
future of technological economics. Specific focus is given to (1) the strategies and key skillsets of
entrepreneurship in promoting and managing innovation for successful business; (2) Real-life
experience and business practices of innovation in China according to different forms of
entrepreneurship, such as start-ups and corporates; (3) Pioneering technologies, global innovation and
the sustainability which will shed light to the future of technological economy in the world.
This course combines lectures, discussions, case studies, group projects and presentations. Students will
be exposed to various opportunities to apply the principles of strategy and management to solve the
issues in the innovation-related business, exploring the business opportunities and designing best
business strategies from the perspective of entrepreneurs and managers. Students who are interested
about the economics aspects of innovation and entrepreneurship, are recommended to take the course
of Creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship in China I.
*This is part of the summer programme (CIEC) where students will spend time in HK, and China (incl.
2 weeks in Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Macau) for workshops, visits, and interactive sessions with guest
speakers.
Co-requisite: FBEC2003 Creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship in China I
FINA2311. Case studies in corporate finance (6 credits)
This course is structured around the most important financial decisions made at the firm level in an
uncertain environment. For example: what capital structure to adopt (financing decision); how to
value a firm or investment project (investment/valuation decision); how to raise capital in the equity
market (IPO decision); what mechanisms to put in place to discipline managers and the largest
shareholder (corporate governance decision); whether to return cash and how to return cash to investors
(dividend/share repurchase decision); and whether a firm should engage in mergers and acquisitions
(M&A) activities and how to do an M&A right (M&A decision). This course exposes students to
some of the most fundamental issues in corporate finance today as well as some of the most important
advances in corporate finance of the last decade. It will offer students an opportunity to understand
how the concepts and theories of corporate finance are applied in real world and generate lasting impact
on firm values, a driving issue faced and constantly asked by CFOs and CEOs. This course will be
taught using a case-oriented approach.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance
FINA2312. Advanced corporate finance (6 credits)
The objective of this course is to introduce the theoretical literature on the microeconomics of corporate
finance in a unified framework. Topics covered include: corporate financing and agency costs,
corporate financing under asymmetric information, liquidity and risk management, corporate finance
and product markets, passive and active monitoring in corporate finance, lending relationships and
investor activism, control rights and corporate governance, and takeovers. Subtle elements of
information and agency considerations are emphasized.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance
26
FINA2320. Investments and portfolio analysis (6 credits)
This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of investments and to major issues
currently of concern to all investors. The concepts and skills developed from this course enable
students to conduct a sophisticated assessment of current issues and debates covered by both the popular
media as well as more-specialized finance journals. We emphasize equity investments and the main
topics include: portfolio theory, equilibrium in capital markets, equity valuation, portfolio performance
evaluation, and relevant institutional details.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance; andECON1280 Analysis of economic data or 
STAT1600 Statistics: ideas and concepts or 
STAT1601 Elementary statistical methods or 
STAT1602 Business statistics or 
STAT1603 Introductory statistics or 
STAT2601 Probability and statistics I or 
STAT2901 Probability and statistics: foundations of actuarial science or 
MATH1853 Linear algebra, probability and statistics
Mutually exclusive: STAT3609 The statistics of investment risk; and
STAT3952 Investment and asset management
ECON2262. Economic development (6 credits)
Why do countries remain poor? This course provides an overview of major topics in the study of
economic development: the branch of economics which studies the determinants of income growth and
poverty reduction. Each week, we will focus on a particular barrier to economic development and,
through a combination of economic theory and empirical evidence, seek to build a better understanding
of the type of policies and interventions conducive to development. The goal is not to provide an
exhaustive coverage of all topics but to expose students to current issues and debates in development
economics.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics and ECON1220 Introductory
macroeconomics; or
GHAD1002 Introductory economics and finance
FINA2330. Financial markets and institutions (6 credits)
This course is designed to introduce and analyze the structure, operations and functions of the financial
system. The course starts with an introduction to financial markets’ role in the economy, and the
determination of interest rates and valuation of cash flows. The course then discusses various financial
markets including money markets, bond markets, mortgage markets, stock markets and derivatives
markets. Financial institutions will be discussed with an emphasis on their major functions and
operations.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance
27
FINA2331. Management of commercial banks (6 credits)
This course introduces basic bank management techniques that include: asset and liability management,
liquidity and reserve management, credit analysis, loan pricing and off-balance-sheet banking.
Regulatory issues of commercial banks are also discussed.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
FINA2332. International banking (6 credits)
Nature of international banking. Comparison with domestic banking. Jurisdiction and regulatory
framework: the Basel Concordat. Xeno-currency markets and international banking. International
financing techniques: loan syndication, project finance, NIFs, RUFs etc. Risk exposure and control:
sovereign risk, country risk, exchange risk, interest risk and credit risk. Management and strategies of
international banks. “National treatment” and financial centres.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
FINA2334. Banking – strategies, operations and controls (6 credits)
This course is designed to provide and equip students with solid theoretical and practical knowledge of
the key processes of a bank in an end-to-end manner, allowing students to develop an integrated and
holistic understanding of bank management, looking into their strategies, operations and control.
Problems are rarely resolved in isolation in business, especially in a complex banking environment.
This course brings together a comprehensive and practical set of theories, disciplines and management
principles in a coherent process-oriented manner to allow students to gain the necessary knowledge and
management techniques applicable to different functions of a bank.
Digitalisation is the key trend in the banking industry. Banks are embracing cyber technology in their
operations and dealings with clients. Eight virtual banking licenses were granted by the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority. The course will also address some of the key innovations impacting the banking
industry.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
FINA2342. Insurance: theory and practice (6 credits)
Insurance is the study of risk financing through risk pooling. The use of insurance to reduce the
adverse financial impact in case of a loss has become an important element of financial and risk
management in our society. This course will cover the theories underlying each major type of
insurance products; the characteristics of the contractual agreements pertaining to insurance products;
the structure of the insurance industry and its impact on the pricing of insurance products; the operation
of insurance companies and the need for government regulations of the industry.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
28
FINA2343. Lending and credit in private banking and corporate banking (1) (6 credits)
This course covers the key elements of lending and provision of credit facility in banking, including
corporate clients and high net worth individual (“HNWI”) clients. Lending and leveraging is a key
component of a banking relationship and an important source of revenues for banks. Lending and
leverage involves risks to the banks and to the clients. The business of lending and the provision of
other credit facilities is intrinsically linked to the management of risk for the bank. The use of
borrowings and entering into leveraged products/transactions is equally a process of risk awareness and
risk management for the client.
The course will discuss basic credit analysis and risk evaluation tools, including financial statement
analysis and cashflow analysis, application of financial ratios, business risk identification/evaluation as
well as collateral analysis.
Prerequisite: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting
Pre/Co-requisite: FINA1310 Corporate finance
FINA2344. Lending and credit in private banking and corporate banking (2) (6 credits)
This course is an advance course based on FINA2343 Lending and credit in private banking and
corporate banking (1).
The course covers the key elements of lending and provision of credit facility in banking, including
corporate clients and high networth individual (“HNWI”) clients. Lending and leveraging is a key
component of a banking relationship and an important source of revenues for banks. Lending and
leverage involves risks to the banks and to the clients. The business of lending and the provision of
other credit facilities is intrinsically linked to the management of risk for the bank. The use of
borrowings and entering into leveraged products/transactions is equally a process of risk awareness and
risk management for the client.
The course will discuss the bank’s credit process including purpose of the credit, types of loan/credit
facility and loan structure; credit analysis and risks evaluation, financial analysis and cashflow
projections; security and collateral analysis, lending margins, credit monitoring and remedial
management.
Student(s) will be assigned a case to work on which form the basis of the final assessment. Students
will be guided over the course as to writing of this Credit Application applying the analytical tools and
concepts learnt.
Pre/Co-requisite: FINA2343 Lending and credit in private banking and corporate banking (1)
FINA2382. Real estate finance (6 credits)
An introduction to real estate economics, mortgage markets, real estate auctions in Hong Kong; presale market in Hong Kong; pricing of land and residential/commercial properties; mortgage-backed
securities and mortgage companies.
Prerequisite: FINA1310 Corporate finance
29
FINA2383. International financial management (6 credits)
The course studies corporate financial decisions in an international setting. We start with basic concepts
of international financial markets. These concepts include the global foreign exchange market and its
operations, the international capital market, the global bond market, the international equity markets,
and cross-border portfolio investment. Then, we discuss corporate financial decision issues including
risk management, investment, capital structure, capital budgeting, and cash management in the global
context.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance
FINA2385. ESG in business and finance (6 credits)
This course is designed to introduce environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics to students of
business, finance and policy.
Students will consider the relationship of corporates to societal objectives such as environmental
protection and equitable working opportunities, which may not be within their direct operational
mandates. Students will be introduced to key environmental and social challenges, such as climate
change, pollution, and social inequality, and evaluate the “value” that preserving nature brings to society
and to corporates.
We will review the key elements of an ESG system at the corporate level. What is required, at a
minimum, and what kinds of advanced investments (beyond compliance) would serve both societal and
corporate objectives? Students will apply these lessons to analyze specific company ESG programs
via case studies, assessing strengths and suggesting areas of improvement.
We will apply the principles of successful ESG management to the field of investment. Is a strategy
that employs advanced ESG metrics likely to outperform traditional investment benchmarks? What
are the pitfalls of employing a sustainability-focused public market or private market investment plan?
ESG experts from Corporates and Investments will be invited to talk to our students as guest speakers.
They should be helping the students to understand the current trends/practice in ESG.
Prerequisite: FINA1310 Corporate finance
FINA2390. Financial programming and databases (6 credits)
This course provides undergraduate students a foundation in managing and analyzing financial datasets.
Data analysis is a very important skill for the students to master. The first part of the course focuses on
building skills – data manipulation using programming languages. The second part introduces various
financial databases. Through practice on world financial datasets, students will learn methods used to
warehouse and retrieve data for statistical computing. The course then turns to analytical methods with
a focus on demonstrating these methods on real-data from various contexts in finance. Methods covered
include manipulation of time series and panel data, statistical modeling and inference, simple textual
analysis, classification and alternative datasets, etc. Problem sets and projects will be the primary mode
of learning. Course learning will be supplemented with exposure to industry speakers from the local
financial industry.
30
FINA3316. Investment banking: valuation, LBOs, and M&A (6 credits)
This course is designed to develop a solid understanding of commonly discussed and applied issues in
investment banking, in particular valuation, leveraged buyouts (LBOs), and mergers and acquisitions
(M&As). The topics covered in this course include the M&A process, methods of valuing a target firm,
valuing synergies, the form of payment and financing, assessing highly levered transactions (i.e. LBOs),
governance in M&A, and M&A negotiations. M&A cases will be used in discussing these topics. By
going through analyses and discussions of real-life M&A, students will gain experience in the
application of financial theories and techniques to evaluate M&A decisions and transactions commonly
arising in investment banking.
FINA3317. Entrepreneurial finance (6 credits)
This course aims to cover basic information and knowledge about project choice and financing, idea
implementation, and decision-making in start-up businesses. The majority of such information and
knowledge is delivered based on the case method (with supplementary lecture notes when appropriate).
It is noteworthy that we will take two roles interchangeably throughout this course: the entrepreneurs
who seek funding and the venture capitalists who seek good projects. Understanding the role of both
important players in the entrepreneurial finance process helps us have an objective evaluation and
unbiased assessment of potential ideas and projects. Broadly speaking, we can think of entrepreneurial
activities as a series of decisions and actions based on high potential payoffs of high uncertainty to a
project that requires substantial time and monetary resources. The decision begins with identifying new
opportunities, considering available resources and risks, designing a business plan, securing financing,
gathering and maintaining a team, deciding optimal growth path and innovation strategies. Accordingly,
the whole course can be decomposed into four distinct sections: (1) Identifying opportunities and
evaluating the payoff, risk, and resources required: how to define an entrepreneurial opportunity? How
to evaluate the potential of an idea? What is the necessary condition for this venture to succeed? What
does it take for this business plan to fly? Do we have any stop-loss point? (2) Seeking funding: How to
write a business plan? Where to start the fund-seeking? How to negotiate the contracts? This section
will focus on start-ups’ financial management and the financial contracting between financiers and
entrepreneurs. (3) Constructing and maintaining a team: Who should we recruit for this venture? How
to keep the team functioning? How to write a contract to attract and maintain good employees? It is
important to analyze the dynamics among workers within a start-up and to examine the alignment
between innovation strategies and human capital. (4) Collaborating with other firms: The collaboration
with external firms and organizations is another important issue. Spin-offs, joint ventures and strategic
alliances are three common types of collaborations. It is also important to analyze the costs, benefits,
and formats of partnering with other firms.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
FINA3318. China’s financial system and markets (6 credits)
This course is to examine and analyse the financial markets in China. The purpose is to help students
form a comprehensive picture of current state of financial institutions, instruments, and regulations in
the Chinese financial market. Particular emphasis is placed on the role of the financial system on the
development and reform of economy in China, as well as the impact of Chinese government on the
efficiency of the market. The difference between the financial market in China and the markets in the
mature economies will also be examined, which helps students understand the rationales of the
development and arrangements of the financial market in China. Debates of current financial issues will
also be discussed.
Prerequisite: FINA1310 Corporate finance
31
FINA3319. Green finance and impact investing (6 credits)
Global warming and environmental concerns have become urgent issues and financial solutions are
being sought after. Green finance is designed to support sustainable, climate friendly growth.
Institutional investors, corporate managers and government organizations are actively participating
in this area. Many impact funds are being set up every year. This course introduces the recent
development in the financial market on green finance such as green bonds. Impact investing such as
activism will be analyzed. The rising importance and implementation of environmental, social and
governance (ESG) for investment will be studied. Other related topics are accounting, certification,
and reporting of green projects.
Prerequisites: FINA1310 Corporate finance; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
FINA3322. Credit risk (6 credits)
Credit derivatives are the biggest financial innovations in the last 20 years. Credit risk analysis and
management are of great interest to investment banks, commercial banks, traders, regulators, and rating
agencies. This course provides an introduction as well as an in-depth understanding of credit risk
measurement and credit derivatives such as credit default swaps. The objective is to provide a practiceoriented balance between developing a sound conceptual framework and market understanding and
insight.
Prerequisite: FINA2322 Derivatives
Mutually exclusive: STAT4607 Credit risk analysis
FINA3323. Fixed income securities (6 credits)
This course is designed to provide a comprehensive introduction to fixed income securities by covering
the following broad topical areas: (a) the institutions and operations involved in the fixed income
securities markets; (b) the valuation and hedging of fixed income securities; (c) the term structure of
interest rate; (d) the use and application of interest rate derivatives in the areas of risk management and
financial engineering; and (e) the interest rate models.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA2322 Derivatives or STAT3905 Introduction to financial derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
FINA3324. Interest rate models (6 credits)
This course introduces various state-to-the-art techniques in modeling fixed income securities. In
particular, the course starts with the discount factor approach in pricing all kinds of bonds. Then we
focus on modeling the discount factors. Models are introduced in two major parts. First, the course
emphasizes discrete-time models based on binomial trees in order to understand the economic insight
of the risk-neutral pricing. Second, extensions to continuous-time models are also discussed in detail.
Calibration and implementation of the models will be studied. Other related topics may include interest
rate risk management, interest rate derivatives, and monetary policy.
Prerequisites: FINA3323 Fixed income securities; and
FINA3350 Mathematical finance
32
FINA3325. Alternative investments (6 credits)
This course provides an overview of various forms of alternative investments that include hedge funds,
managed futures, private equity, venture capital, real estate, commodities and foreign exchange. The
purpose of the course is to give students a good understanding of the operation of these investments;
the benefits and pitfalls associated with them; and strategies to integrate them into the context of
portfolio management. The current state of research and practice of the industry will be addressed.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
Mutually exclusive: FINA3327 Hedge funds: strategies, business management, and institutions
FINA3326. Equity valuation and investment management (6 credits)
This course covers the practical applications and issues of financial analysis, valuation, and investment
of equities. Topics include, but not limited to, the basic analysis of financial statements; valuation
models-e.g. DCF, free cash flows and other methods commonly used in the market; risk and return
analysis; equity research and stock selection process; portfolio construction; active vs passive and other
styles of investment; performance evaluation and appraisal. Students will get hands-on experience using
most up-to-date market data and industry and company information available.
Prerequisite: FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
FINA3327. Hedge funds: strategies, business management, and institutions (6 credits)
This course is an in-depth study of the hedge fund industry. We will study hedge fund trading strategies,
the business model of hedge funds, hedge fund investors, as well as the institutional and regulatory
framework in which hedge funds operate. The course will evaluate and analyze popular hedge fund
trading strategies, including equity strategies (activist, market-neutral, long/short, event-driven, etc.),
arbitrage strategies (derivatives, convertible, fixed-income, currency and global macro, etc.), and fund
of hedge funds. The course will also analyze the hedge fund business model, including: performance
evaluation and risk management; fund compensation and contractual features; transaction costs and
market impact; as well as fund raising and marketing. In addition, the course will study the institutional
relationships hedge funds have with service providers (prime brokers, custodian banks, etc.) and with
regulators. We will also discuss public policy implications and the value of hedge funds in society. This
course is designed to provide students with the skills necessary to evaluate hedge fund strategies, and
to develop, manage, and successfully grow a hedge fund business.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
Mutually exclusive: FINA3325 Alternative investments
FINA3334. Private banking and wealth management (6 credits)
This course is an introduction to the fundamentals of private banking and wealth management for High
Net Worth (HNW) individuals. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, an overview of the Asian
private banking and wealth management industry with particular emphasis on the Greater China market;
portfolio management, optimization and asset allocation; investment advisory and credit risk functions;
tax and wealth planning tools for mobility, retirement and estate, including trusts, foundations, and
insurance; behavioral finance; client relationship management; family office; business ethics and
professional standards; and laws, regulations and compliance issues.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
33
FINA3335. Current issues in asset management and private banking industry (6 credits)
This course seeks to cover current development and current issues in the asset management and private
banking industry. The issues identified may be related to new business opportunities, new risk areas,
new development affecting the AMPB market/industry.
Course assessment is based on group research report and the group presentation of the report. Students
are to pick a topic of current issue and research on the topic. Evaluation is based on the quality of
the research and the relevancy of the identified opportunity/risk to the development of the AMPB
industry.
FINA3336. Investment consulting, institutional business and family office (6 credits)
The course aims to introduce the investment consulting industry and provides students with practical
understanding of the industry in its relevance to the asset management and private wealth industry,
particular in relation to institutional investors and family office. Students would be able to articulate
and asses the process and methodology employed by the investment consultants in developing
investment objectives, investment procedures and risk management of institutional clients, and able to
compare and contrast the difference between sovereign funds, public funds, endowment funds,
pension/retirement funds, corporate funds and family office managed fund. Students would also be
able to identify the growing importance and dynamics of family office (single family office and multi
family office) in managing family funds, wealth planning and succession planning for ultra-high
networth individuals/families.
Prerequisite: FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
FINA3337. Venture capital and private equity (6 credits)
The course covers the fundamentals of Venture Capital (VC) and Private Equity (PE) as well as the key
elements within the ecosystem. VC and PE is one of the asset classes of alternative investments and
is essential for financial investors to evaluate and understand the risk and return of this asset class.
The course would be beneficial to students who are interested in the financial sector and in particular
in investment in an alternative asset class including VC and PE in Hong Kong and the region. Hong
Kong is the second largest Private Equity hub in Asia (outside of China which is a closed market, HK
is the number one PE hub in the region indeed). As an asset class, alternative investments including
PE is growing from single digit to double digit within the investors’ portfolio asset allocations.
The course will cover both academic and practical aspects. Students will learn the foundations of PE/VC
which encompasses a broad array of knowledge including deal structure, different investment strategies,
investment evaluation, risk and return analysis, middle and back office on monitoring and control as
well as investor relations. We will also cover the role VC and PE plays in a given investor’s portfolio
as well as which types of investors would be open to which types of VC and PE and the rationale behind
them. The performance of VC / PE and how to evaluate are also areas we will study. In addition, we
will learn about the future of VC and PE as well as the variations of alternative investments to cover a
broader scope of relevant knowledge for the student.
Students will be assigned a case to work on which form the basis of the final assessment. They will be
guided over the course as to writing of this private equity / VC sample case applying the analytical tools
and concepts learnt. Industry practitioners in the VC/PE will be invited as guest speaker(s) so the
students are connected with both the academia and the industry in this course as well.
Prerequisite: FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
34
FINA3338. Multi-asset investing (6 credits)
In this course, students will learn about the role of different asset classes and the importance of multiasset investing. The course will discuss major asset classes including fixed income, equities, alternative
investments, derivatives, commodities, FX, digital assets, and ESG. In addition, multi-asset investment
process including strategic asset allocation, dynamic asset allocation, tactical asset allocation, portfolio
implementation, performance attribution will be discussed.
Prerequisites: FINA1310 Corporate finance; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis; and
FINA2322 Derivatives
FINA3340. Risk management (6 credits)
This course covers the advanced techniques for corporate financial risk management. Topics include
(i) the identification and measurement of financial risk, (ii) risk management for equity portfolios, (iii)
risk management for fixed income securities portfolios, (iv) risk management for derivative securities
portfolios, (v) risk management for financial institutions, (vi) Riskmetrics, (vii) credit risk management,
and (viii) the recent development of risk management tools and techniques in financial markets.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives or STAT3905 Introduction to financial derivatives or
STAT3910 Financial economics I or MATH3906 Financial calculus; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
FINA3350. Mathematical finance (6 credits)
This course provides students with the necessary mathematical techniques used in continuous-time
finance. It covers stochastic calculus, partial differential equation and applied probability. After taking
this course, one should be able to fully understand no-arbitrage theory, the Black-Scholes equation, riskneutral probability and martingales. The purpose of this course is to lay down a solid mathematical
foundation for students to learn more advanced topics in financial engineering, such as exotic options,
interest rate derivatives and credit risk models.
Prerequisite: FINA2322 Derivatives
Mutually exclusive: MATH3906 Financial calculus
FINA3351. Spreadsheet financial modeling (6 credits)
This course studies the design and implementation of computer programs for financial modeling using
spreadsheets and structured programming techniques. The course will focus on developing skills in
translating financial models into spreadsheets and programs using Microsoft Excel and Visual Basic for
Applications (VBA), examining popular financial and investment models, integrating spreadsheet
functionalities, programming, and interfaces in financial applications, and hands-on experience in
designing, coding, and debugging computer programs.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
35
FINA3353. Regulatory, operational and valuation issues in finance institutions (6 credits)
This course examines with students’ practical issues involving financial institutions, with a focus on
banks. These include how banks shapes and, in the meantime, are bounded by regulations the regulatory
environment. In turn, how the macro regulatory environment then transformed into operational
practices in financial markets. The course will also go into how these issues are incorporated into models
for analysis and valuation purposes. The course will be very practical, putting a blend of classroom
concepts, theories and frameworks to work, preparing students for real life situations.
Prerequisite: FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
FINA3360. Financial practicum (6 credits)
This course is designed for students who are hired by a reputable company to provide consulting service
in the fields of Economics or Finance. The main purpose of this course is to help students relate
economic or finance theories to the practical experience from their employment. They will be
supervised and assessed jointly by a faculty member and a supervisor/mentor from the participating
company. Interested students should submit to the BEcon/BEcon&Fin Programme Director a
proposal of no less than 1,000 words for approval.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
Remarks: Only available to FBE students.
Candidates intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building).
FINA3381. Behavioural finance (6 credits)
Behavioral finance is the application of psychology to financial behavior. We will explore various
behavioral frames, biases and heuristics and examine their implications on the aggregate market,
individual investors, cross-sections of average returns and corporate decision making in a world of
limited arbitrage.
Prerequisites: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA1310 Corporate finance; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
FINA3382. Structured finance and securitization (6 credits)
Structured finance refers to more sophisticated, complex financial transaction. With securitization as
the dominant form of transaction, structure finance is an important tool in today’s financial markets.
Although there has been an ongoing post-recession decline in the U.S. securitization rate, many other
international markets are growing. This course is designed to provide a broad, comprehensive
introduction to structured finance and securitization. The following topics will be covered: (a) building
blocks of structured finance, (b) mechanics of securitization and various securitized products, especially
CDOs (collateralized debt obligations), (c) leasing, (d) project financing, and (e) fundamentals of
structured finance modeling using Microsoft Excel.
Prerequisites: FINA2322 Derivatives; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis or STAT3609 The statistics of
investment risk
36
FINA3383. Financial regulations and compliance (6 credits)
This course covers financial regulations and compliance relevant to intermediaries (company and
individuals) licensed or registered with the Securities and Futures Commission to engage in regulated
activities. Embedded in regulations and compliance are ethics, professional standards and applicable
laws. Topics include, but not limited to, ethics, professional standards, and code of conducts and best
practices, know your clients, sales and suitability, investor protection, anti-money laundering, timely
and accurate communications, independence and objectivity, fair dealing, compliance issues and
compliance handling, relevant local rules and regulations, and international best practices for
investment professionals. Selected cases will be used for discussion in class.
FINA3384. Behavioural and sociological finance (6 credits)
This course covers current developments in finance. Possible topics include security trading and
market making, venture analysis, financial contracting, investment strategies for local markets and other
current issues in finance. The exact topics to be offered will be determined by the lecturer(s).
FINA3385. Global sustainable investing and ESG integration (6 credits)
In this course, how environment, social, and governance (ESG) impacts on risk and return of
investments and corporate financial performance will be explored. Different ESG investment
approaches and strategies will be introduced and students will develop an understanding of ESG
integration and how ESG will be embedded in the investment process and in valuation models. In
addition, students will learn about sustainable investing across different asset classes and the various
ESG Reporting frameworks.
This course will prepare students to sit for the “Certified ESG Analyst (CESGA)” examination offered
by EFFAS (The European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies).
Prerequisites: FINA1310 Corporate finance; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis
FINA3391. Reading course (6 credits)
The course consists of supervised reading and written work. Candidates may specialize in one topic
under the supervision of faculty members.
Candidates must submit the title of their project within the first two weeks of the semester for approval
by the BEcon/BEcon&Fin Programme Director. An original project paper is required in lieu of a
written paper in the Examination. The project paper must be completed and presented not later than
the first day of the assessment period for that semester. Candidates shall submit a statement that the
project paper represents their own work (or in case of joint work, a statement countersigned by their coworker(s), which shows the degree of their work) undertaken after the registration in the course.
Prerequisites: ECON2280 Introductory econometrics; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis; and
FINA2322 Derivatives
Remarks: Candidates intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building).
37
FINA4321. Managing money in asset management and private banking (6 credits)
This course is a Capstone course and students are expected to apply the core investment, valuation and
portfolio theories, analytical / advisory tools and asset management knowledge, including risk
management and regulatory compliance, into analyzing asset and private wealth management business
cases.
The classroom lectures will use various case studies to illustrate the different areas of issues identified
as well as capturing the most contemporary trends of the asset management and private banking industry.
Students are expected to challenge the dynamics of the cases and form an analytical framework in
approaching the issues. The classroom lectures aim to provide insights to the students and guide them
through their thinking and analytical ability in tackling the project assignments.
As this is a Capstone course focusing on application of essential knowledge of technical and business
skills, students are expected to do research/analysis on assigned/selected topic, individually for the midterm project and in groups for the final-term project. The project(s) will be based on a case, students
are expected to come up with recommended investment strategies with strategic asset allocation and
tactical strategies in light of client’s investment objectives, client’s profile, suitability requirements,
global investment outlook and risks dynamics. Furthermore, various business aspects (such as product
development, sales, distribution, marketing and operations) should also be taken into account.
Pre/Co-requisites: All core courses of the AMPB programme
Remarks: This course is a required course for BFin(AMPB) and open only to final year students of
BFin(AMPB) or students taking a second major in Asset Management and Private Banking
(AMPB).
FINA4341. Quantitative risk management (6 credits)
The objective of this course is to introduce concepts, techniques and framework for quantitative risk
management at financial institutions. Financial firms, with their complicated list of positions in a
mixture of instruments, are exposed to various sources of financial risk. This class focuses mainly on
market risk, the risk of unexpected changes in prices and rates. The first part of the course introduces
basic concepts in risk management and builds the toolkit for measuring risk quantitatively. The second
part of the course is devoted to studying the widely accepted Value at Risk (VAR) systems, including
calculations, back testing and flaws of VAR. The course also touches on other aspects of financial risk
such as liquidity risk, credit risk and operational risk.
Prerequisite: FINA3350 Mathematical finance
Mutually exclusive: STAT4608 Market risk analysis
38
FINA4350. Text analytics and natural language processing in finance and fintech (6 credits)
This course covers the main elements of natural language processing (NLP), text analytics, and text
mining, providing students with a foundation in collecting, managing, and analyzing textual data with
financial and economic applications in mind, such as FinTech. Examples of potential applications
include understanding and responding to sentiment in financial newspapers and social media, using
social media to improve performance in asset/investment management, due diligence, Fed watching,
monitoring of company events, and detecting insider trading. Although students write their own
computer programs in this course, they are not required to implement most algorithms from scratch.
Instead, the focus of this course is on how to use existing state-of-the-art open-source software libraries
and how to apply them in a financial context. This course consists of three parts. In the first part, we
work with real-world textual data sets to obtain proficiency in collecting, importing, organizing, and
cleaning textual data from sources related to finance and economics. Among others, we cover web
scraping, textual corpora, text processing, tokenization, stemming, and stop word removal. In the second
part we delve into a more detailed analysis of NLP, text analytics, and machine learning with a particular
focus on FinTech. For instance, we examine bag-of-words, word weighting schemes, document
classification, document clustering, sentiment analysis, and topic models. The third part consists of
summarizing, displaying, and visualizing results obtained from NLP and text analytics for applications
in finance and economics.
FINA4354. Financial engineering (6 credits)
Financial engineering is the process of constructing new instruments by using bonds and individual
derivatives such as forwards, calls, puts, and exotic options as basic building blocks. The process
involves designing, pricing and managing the instruments. In this course, we anatomize a few popular
structural products. We then discuss how to price these products by studying the price of the embedded
exotic options. We study the risk exposure of the investors and the risk management of the issuer.
We also discuss some topics on the market for volatility trading, numerical methods for option pricing,
and models beyond Black-Scholes.
Prerequisite: FINA3350 Mathematical finance
FINA4359. Big data analytics applied toward quantitative finance (6 credits)
This course provides students a foundation in managing and analyzing large datasets for applications in
finance. The first part of the course focuses on building skills – data custodianship and performance
computing. Through practice on real-world financial datasets, students will learn methods used to
warehouse and retrieve data for high-performance statistical computing. The course then turns to
analytical methods with a focus on demonstrating these methods on real-data from various contexts in
finance. Methods covered include statistical modeling and inference, machine learning, textual analysis,
classification and alternative datasets. Problem sets and projects will be the primary mode of learning.
Course learning will be supplemented with exposure to industry speakers from the local financial
industry. As for applications, a particular emphasis will be on quantitative trading but course projects
will enable a student to pursue his or her own interests.
Prerequisite: ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis; and
IIMT2602 Business programming or COMP1117 Computer programming or
ENGG1111 Computer programming and applications or equivalent
39
FINA4392. Dissertation (12 credits)
Candidates may write a dissertation under the supervision of faculty members. A satisfactory
dissertation may be offered in lieu of two written papers in the Examination.
Candidates must submit the title and an outline of their dissertation for approval by the
BEcon/BEcon&Fin Programme Director not later than the last day of the revision period in the first
semester. The dissertation shall be completed and presented not later than the first day of the
assessment period for the second semester (Note: The course extends over two semesters. Candidates
must enroll in the first semester).
Prerequisites: ECON2280 Introductory econometrics; and
FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis; and
FINA2322 Derivatives; and
Cumulative GPA of 3.0 or above at the time of enrolment
Remarks: Open only to Year 4 students majoring in Finance.
Candidates intending to take this course shall complete an application form which is
available at the Faculty Office (Room 1305, K.K. Leung Building).
IIMT1611. Principles of technology entrepreneurship (6 credits)
The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the entrepreneurial process of the technology
industry in general. The introductory course will go through the fundamental aspects of launching a
technology entrepreneurial venture to complement the research and development activities in science
and technology. It will expose students to common practices in venture development process such as
opportunity identification and verification, to technology transfer and commercialization. Topics on
legal subjects, e.g. intellectual properties & patent laws, and simple financing & strategic approach in
the business plan will be covered. Sharing sessions by entrepreneurs will be one of the important
components of this course, in order to further nurture an entrepreneurial mindset via learning from reallife examples in this specific industry of technology.
IIMT2602. Business programming (6 credits)
With the proliferation of Web 2.0, individuals, firms and the entire society have generated massive trails
of data as the by-product of their various activities. In virtually all business sectors, decision-making is
increasingly data-driven. Business programming is an introductory course that teaches you how to write
computer programs using Python to collect, analyze, and interpret data from real-world applications.
This course is designed for absolute beginners and will build the skills from scratch. Therefore, no prior
knowledge or programming experience is required. However, students are expected to have basic
computer skills.
Mutually exclusive: COMP1117 Computer programming; and
ENGG1330 Computer programming I
40
IIMT2628. Innovation and entrepreneurship internship (6 credits)
The most effective entrepreneurship learning is from the combination of theory, case studies and
practical experience. This course aims to let students learn from industrial practical experience that
complements the lecture learning and class activities. It aims at building up students’ own mindset
and value through real life experience and mentored by the participating companies. It aims at
developing students’ understanding of the challenge and solution in the entrepreneurial process, the
practices of innovation, the strategic inter-relationship among Hong Kong and other cities in Greater
Bay Area, and the global vision in the current economic atmosphere.
This course combines lectures, discussions, case studies, reporting and sharing. Students will be
exposed to the entrepreneurship and industry ecosystem, and are expected to observe, or involve in, the
aspects like financing and business model, branding and marketing, product market adoption, the everchanging circumstances, the related strategic planning and evaluation.
Remarks: This course is graded as “Pass” or “Fail”. It is open to all FBE students, or non-FBE
students who has taken any FBE course.
IIMT2641. Introduction to business analytics (6 credits)
Online transactions, mobile applications, sensors, video-capturing systems and social media generate
massive amount of data. In response businesses increasingly rely on quantitative techniques, statistical
models and data mining methods to gain managerial and strategic insights from such data and thus enhance
their competitive position. This course covers both technical and managerial aspects to provide a basic
understanding of business analytics and show how it can be used by businesses to analyze their competitive
posture more effectively, know their customers better and make better managerial and strategic decisions.
IIMT3601. Database management (6 credits)
This course introduces the principles of design, development and administration of database
management systems in business, considering the user, developer, and administrator points of view.
Students will learn the basic concepts involved in the design and management of databases in business
applications, including database architecture, entity-relationship modeling, database normalization,
structured query language, and database administration. Students will also acquire hands-on experience
in designing and developing simple databases.
Mutually exclusive: BSIM3017 Database systems; and
COMP3278 Introduction to database management systems
IIMT3602. Information systems analysis and design (6 credits)
This course aims to develop an understanding of the concepts of systems analysis and design. Various
system development methodologies will be elaborated and discussed. CASE tools will be used to
illustrate how to construct a variety of system design documents. The course will use a combination of
lectures, laboratory sessions, assignments, and projects.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
Mutually exclusive: BSIM3014 User-based systems analysis; and
COMP3297 Software engineering
41
IIMT3603. Project management (6 credits)
This course focuses on the planning, scheduling, control, and evaluation of project management. The
basic tools and techniques of project management will be explored, with special emphasis on
engineering, management, and control of IS/IT related business projects. The evaluation of projects and
project management will also be addressed, as will scope, time, cost, quality, human resources,
communications, risk, and procurement.
Prerequisites: ACCT1101 Introduction to financial accounting; and
ECON1210 Introductory microeconomics
Mutually exclusive: BSIM4011 Project management
IIMT3604. Telecommunications management (6 credits)
This course introduces telecommunications and computing networks used in the support of business
activities. Topics include data, voice, image and communication technologies; networking and
communication architectures; and protocols and standards.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
Mutually exclusive: COMP3234 Computer and communication networks
IIMT3621. Creativity and business innovation (6 credits)
Today the efficient and cost-effective provision and deployment of resources no longer guarantee
sustainable advantage. Instead, a firm’s competitive advantage is increasingly tied to its workforce’s
ability to think outside the box, and leverage fleeting opportunities to innovate and market high-margin
products and services.
This course aims to put students in a lateral mind-set where they can challenge the conventional wisdom
to think creatively, see the unseen to uncover opportunities, and explore the trade-offs involved in
managerial decisions to design elegant and articulated solutions.
Remarks: This course is not open to first-year students.
IIMT3622. Business transformation (6 credits)
Managers need to have special skills to survive in today’s volatile, uncertain, complex, chaotic and
accelerating world. The course builds on chaos theory to provide a roadmap for managers planning to
transform their companies into an inter-networked enterprise where shared infrastructures are used to
link customers, suppliers, partners and employees to create superior economic value. It covers business
strategy, infrastructure, process management, and integration and implementation. The course is based
on the premise that integrating Internet technologies throughout the value chain is crucial in building
and managing customer relationships and thus brand equity.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
42
IIMT3623. Design thinking: concepts and applications (6 credits)
Design methodology is closely related to the innovation process within different business contexts.
This course aims to develop students’ design mentality and skillsets through idea conceptualisation,
concept development, process, implementation, and project planning and management.
Case studies will be examined to understand where and why creative designs are incorporated in
different industries, taking into account respective historical backgrounds and theories.
Studies of innovation will cover architectural and product designs; sales, marketing, and branding; and
change management. Students will be challenged to take a cross-disciplinary approach to creatively
achieve business, social and communal goals in their group projects.
Remarks: This course is available to FBE students only.
IIMT3624. Design studio (6 credits)
This is a complementary course to IIMT3623 and offers problem-based studios to mimic the core
learning process in professional design education. Design topics will serve as the media for students
to explore concept and project development.
The aim of the course is to get students to think and work through a comprehensive process in their
hands-on projects. While striving to achieve business and social goals, students will be trained to
utilize the hybrid viewpoints of analysts and creative designers to evaluate the nature of projects, their
functions, and short-term and long-term impacts on different stakeholders.
Students will also learn to develop solutions through hands-on experiment and staged workshops,
simulating the professional creative industry. They will develop their own authentic style in leadership
and problem-solving skills, supported by visual communication and graphical techniques.
Prerequisite: IIMT3623 Design thinking: concepts and applications
Remarks: For students in BDI/EDI majors only.
IIMT3626. Values-driven innovation (6 credits)
This course provides a platform for critical rethinking of the role of business in creating both business
value and social values. It examines the business building blocks to explore win-win situations where
economic success and societal benefits co-exist through innovative thinking and solutions, taking into
account related trade-offs. Students will learn how to design businesses that can respond to increasing
demands for a fairer and better society, a greener environment and greater work-life balance, whilst
reducing costs, building customer loyalty, and attracting and retaining talents, thus creating long-lasting
value.
43
IIMT3627. Venture and entrepreneurship management (6 credits)
Successful entrepreneurs, including “intrapreneurs”, are those who are starting their new ventures
because they are able to sense unmet needs better, and able to deliver more solid outcome than their
current contemporaries. This ability to strategize and execute on the fly is extremely rare. Somehow,
they have the beliefs that their model can serve these unmet needs better and more effectively. They are
to turn these beliefs into behaviors and behaviors to habits: leading to being extra-hardworking,
optimistic, and persistent. They don’t ever quit.
The great entrepreneurs are special people and they build more than just businesses, they know when
to seed new businesses, how to find and develop successful leaders who can manage further successes,
and how to add to the broader ecosystem by giving back and letting others build on their successes.
This is what venture management is fundamentally about: how to know when to start, maintain, grow,
split, and close a business.
This course provides an overview of venture management in innovation development and
commercialization for those who believe they have what it takes to build new businesses and ventures.
The students will strengthen their know-how through listening and engaging in discussions, with guest
speakers, through local and international business cases, and venturing. They will be introduced to
practical toolkits, applicable to established corporate, social venture and start-up businesses. Under
entrepreneurship management, the subjects of market analysis and opportunities, business and financial
model design, intellectual property management, sources of investment and equity/shareholder
structures, sustainable business operation management and risk management will be covered.
Students will be asked to experiment and design experiments to validate their assumptions. These
exercises and learning will allow the students to marry theories with practical knowledge needed to plan
and implement changes at established businesses and to build a new business as a start-up.
IIMT3635. Operations management (6 credits)
Effective operations management involves managing people, equipment and other resources. This
course covers a set of techniques that were designed to help people understand and improve
administrative, manufacturing, product design, or service operations processes. Students will learn
process analysis, management of process variability and its impact, process improvement with statistical
tools, and applications in lean operations, using case discussion, in-class interactions, and hands-on
projects.
IIMT3636. Decision and risk analysis I (6 credits)
Business decision-making involves considerable complexity and uncertainty. This course introduces the
basic concepts in quantitative business analysis to help students gain a clear understanding of the key
elements in the decision making process. This course covers the tools and the skills to analyze and solve
problems by stressing approaches to 1) understand and question assumptions, 2) consider a richer set
of solution alternatives, and 3) consider diverse measures of performance. The teaching methods will
include lectures, skill-building exercises, qualitative class discussions, and a project.
Prerequisite: ECON1280 Analysis of economic data or STAT1602 Business statistics or STAT1603
Introductory statistics or STAT2601 Probability & statistics I or equivalent
44
IIMT3637. Decision and risk analysis II (6 credits)
Managers need to understand and promptly react to business risks and uncertainty. This course
introduces sophisticated quantitative models and advanced tools such as discrete and continuous time
Markov chains, renewal processes and other stochastic models to capture randomness in business
processes. Students are expected to learn these mathematical models through lectures, skill-building
exercises and qualitative class discussions.
Prerequisite: IIMT3636 Decision and risk analysis I
IIMT3641. Introduction to financial analytics (6 credits)
This course provides introduction to analytics used in quantitative finance and aims at equipping
students with basic analytical knowledge and practical skills in solving investment and risk management
problems. The course content is organized by main financial instruments: fixed-income securities,
stocks, and financial derivatives; fundamental analytics for each instrument type will be taught.
Implementation (e.g., fitting interest rate term structures, portfolio construction, pricing options by
simulation, etc.) by developing analytics in spreadsheet/VBA or Python with financial data will also be
emphasized. The main topics include bond mathematics, modern portfolio theory, Black-Litterman
model, and basic financial derivatives.
Prerequisites: FINA2320 Investments and portfolio analysis; or
IIMT2641 Introduction to business analytics; or
IIMT3636 Decision and risk analysis I; or
STAT3609 The statistics of investment risk; or
STAT3952 Investment and asset management
IIMT3642. Managing and mining big data (6 credits)
With vast amount of data being available, we are now in the era of “big data”. The knowledge and skills
on large-scale data management are becoming increasingly important. This course provides a broad
introduction to big data, including fundamental concepts and basic techniques for data acquisition and
aggregation, state-of-the-art algorithms for data analysis, and technologies on modern computing
platforms and systems for handling big data.
Prerequisites: IIMT2641 Introduction to business analytics; and
STAT1602 Business statistics or equivalent
Remarks: Students are expected to have prior knowledge of basic linear algebra, basic statistics
and probability, and basic programme experiences with R and Python.
IIMT3643. Data visualization and visual analytics (6 credits)
Data visualization is an essential skill required in today’s data driven world. With its foundations rooted
in statistics, psychology, and computer science, practitioners in almost every field use visualization to
explore and present data. This course shows you how to better understand your data, present clear
evidence of your findings to your intended audience, and tell engaging data stories that clearly depict
the points you want to make all through data graphics. The skills learned in this course offer enormous
value for creatives, educators, entrepreneurs, and business leaders in a variety of industries. Whether
you are a seasoned visualization designer or just learning about it now, this course will serve as an
introduction and reference to becoming visual with data.
45
IIMT3661. Decision support and expert systems (6 credits)
This course explores a range of modern technologies used to support business decision making.
Topics include decision support systems, group support systems, electronic meeting systems, artificial
intelligence, expert systems, and neural networks. Both technical and managerial issues related to the
development and implementation of decision support systems will be discussed.
Prerequisites: IIMT2602 Business programming; and
IIMT3601 Database management or equivalent
IIMT3662. Advanced database management (6 credits)
The course consists of two parts. The first part covers advanced database concepts such as views,
triggers, stored procedures, SQL*Plus, database administration and performance tuning. The second
part examines various techniques in data mining such as decision trees, neural networks, and clustering.
Students will learn about the applications of these techniques in business.
Prerequisite: IIMT3602 Database management or COMP3278 Introduction to database management
systems
Mutually exclusive: BSIM4018 Data warehousing and data mining
IIMT3663. Internet and mobile applications (6 credits)
In this course students will learn how to develop Internet-based and mobile business applications using
the resources, tools and services available on the Internet. Topics include HTML, Java applets, HTTP
and CGI, JavaScript, Java Servlets and JSP, PHP, ASP, Web spiders and search engines, and mobile
applications.
Prerequisites: IIMT2602 Business programming or COMP1117 Computer programming I or
ENGG1111 Computer programming and applications or equivalent; and
IIMT3601 Database management or COMP3278 Introduction to database management
systems or equivalent
Mutually exclusive: BSIM3021 Web development, users and management; and
COMP3322 Modern technologies on World Wide Web
IIMT3664. Telecommunications policy (6 credits)
This course provides an overview of recent developments of the telecommunications industry in Hong
Kong and around the Asia-Pacific. Telecommunications infrastructure policies introduced by
respective governments in the region and the impacts of these policies on business operations will also
be examined.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems or equivalent
IIMT3665. Information systems security management (6 credits)
This course focuses on key issues related to security management of Internet-based business
applications. Students will learn how to evaluate and implement measures to protect an organization's
information systems from various security threats and vulnerabilities. Topics to be covered include
security policy, information security management, information technology governance, risk assessment
and management, and security control.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems or equivalent
46
IIMT3666. Current topics in information systems (6 credits)
This course discusses contemporary issues in information systems, including emerging technologies
and the ways they affect businesses.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems or equivalent
IIMT3667. Information systems strategy (6 credits)
This course examines various issues related to the management of information systems in organisations.
The link between information systems planning and business strategy will be explored to see how
companies can use information systems not only to support their daily operations but also to sustain and
enhance their strategic advantage.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems or equivalent
IIMT3668. Multimedia applications development (6 credits)
This course introduces various technologies and methods used in the design and development of
multimedia applications in digital media industry. Students will learn how to develop interactive
multimedia applications that use audio/video and 2D and 3D graphics. Related concepts including
human-computer interaction, graphics design, and managing multimedia projects will also be covered.
Prerequisites: IIMT2602 Business programming; and
IIMT3601 Database management or equivalent
IIMT3681. Supply chain management (6 credits)
The course introduces students to concepts, strategies, and technologies related to supply chain
management. The course focuses on the systems approach to planning, analysis, design, development,
and management of supply chain. Using cases and real-life projects, students will learn how to use
appropriate information technologies to synchronize supply chain processes, thus reduce costs and
improve service.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems or equivalent
IIMT3682. IT and entrepreneurship (6 credits)
This course introduces students to the core concepts of entrepreneurship with a special emphasis on
entrepreneurial settings involving the use of information technology. Students will be exposed to the
key processes, challenges, risks and rewards of starting up an entrepreneurial business. They will also
learn to apply the concepts and knowledge learned in the course to develop a business plan that could
be presented to potential investors and venture capitalists.
Prerequisites: IIMT2601 Management information systems; and
MGMT2401 Principles of management
Mutually exclusive: MGMT3415 Principles of entrepreneurship
IIMT3683. Enterprise resources planning systems (6 credits)
This course provides an overview of enterprise resource planning systems and their use in the business
environment. Topics include business processes management, functions and data requirements, and
systems implementation and integration.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
47
IIMT3684. Web and social media technology (6 credits)
This subject explores the emerging and revolutionizing role of the World Wide Web for marketing
practice. A number of techniques for advertising over the Internet will be introduced. Students will
explore the potential of advertising through Web technologies such as blog marketing, social media
marketing and advertising, search engine marketing, search engine optimisation, email marketing,
usability testing and website measurement. After completing this module, students will be able to
develop an Internet marketing plan integrating social media tools and search engine use for advertising
on the Internet.
IIMT3685. e-Commerce (6 credits)
This course focuses on business opportunities brought about by the Internet. Students will learn how
to use web-based technologies to set up a business.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
Mutually exclusive: BSIM4019 Electronic commence
IIMT3686. Information systems audit and control (6 credits)
This course is designed to provide an overview of computer information systems auditing and control,
and their application in the business environment. It is intended for general business students. Topics
include the information systems audit process, information technology governance, systems and
infrastructure lifecycle management, information systems auditing methodology and information
security policy, information technology service delivery and support, computer-assisted audit tools and
techniques, protection of information assets, as well as disaster recovery and business continuity
planning.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
IIMT3688. Artificial intelligence in business (6 credits)
This course focuses on the fundamentals of artificial intelligence (AI), with emphasis on business
applications. Students will gain hands-on experience in developing and using different AI tools to solve
real-world business problems. Topics include AI algorithms, intelligent agents, document management,
expert systems, and data mining.
Prerequisite: IIMT3601 Database management or COMP3278 Introduction to database management
systems or equivalent
Mutually exclusive: COMP3270 Artificial intelligence
IIMT3689. Cloud computing: essential and application in entrepreneurship (6 credits)
This pioneering course is delivered via a collaboration between academics and the industry. The training
partner is professional Alibaba Cloud trainer. Participating students will be eligible to take part and be
certificated at the industry-recognized cloud computing certification.
This course introduces students to the use of information technology with special emphasis on the core
concepts of entrepreneurship. Students will learn the relevant basic cloud computing technique and study
the key processes, challenges, risks and rewards in entre- and intra-preneurial business. They will also
learn to apply the concepts and knowledge acquired in the course to develop a digital business project that
could be presented to key stakeholders which incl. potential investors. Students will be learning from
real-life examples in this specific industry of technology.
48
IIMT3690. Information systems practicum (12 credits)
This 12-credit experiential course provides a practical platform for students to apply their information
systems knowledge in the real world. Under the supervision of a company executive and a professor,
students will work in a company on a full-time basis for a minimum continuous period of six months.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
Remarks: The course is only open to students taking a major or minor in Information Systems.
Registration in this course is subject to the approval of the course coordinator who will try
to place students in a company. Alternatively, students can identify a company willing to
employ them, but they need to seek the approval of the course coordinator beforehand.
IIMT4601. Information systems project management (6 credits)
This course examines the concepts, techniques, and activities related to information systems
development projects. Teams of students will carry out projects that span the entire information
systems analysis and design life cycle, including planning and scheduling, cost estimation, risk analysis,
team organisation, process management and quality assurance. In the process students will become
familiar with the use of computer-based tools and managerial techniques used in information systems
development projects.
Mutually exclusive: COMP3404 Software quality and project management
Remarks: This course is only available to final year students with a major in Information Systems.
IIMT4602. Digital innovation (6 credits)
The course will teach students how to create innovation-driven business model through both process
innovation and product innovation. The focus is on businesses that are technology innovation driven.
The course contents will cover disruptive technologies, cross-channel business model development,
mobilization of networked business, canvas drawing, social media-based product and marketing
innovation, etc. In particular, students will learn how to identify technology innovation opportunities
and manage innovation process. The students can appreciate the value of IT ecosystems and platformbased business operations.
Prerequisite: IIMT2601 Management information systems
MGMT2787. Business case analysis and presentation (6 credits)
This intensive 6-credit course aims to provide students with the requisite knowledge, skills and tools to
prepare, present and write up business case studies for both academic and business use. The skills
gained will also prepare students for participation in (international) case competitions. Students will
work in rotating groups and will have to prepare and present cases following the format used in various
global case competitions. Students also will have to submit individual case reports. Senior business
executives based from around the globe will act as guest speakers and judges during the course.
Remarks: (i) Students should have a good CGPA, good analytical skills, be intellectually curious
and keep up to date with global (business) affairs. Students may be required to attend
interviews before being admitted to the course.
(ii) Students* who perform well in the course can be selected to represent HKU in
(international) case competitions.
* Only students from the Faculty of Business and Economics will be considered for
(international) case competitions due to resources constraints.
49
MGMT3403. Leadership (6 credits)
This course deals with leadership in organisational contexts. Students will learn about major theoretical
approaches to studying leadership. Students will also examine leadership in problem situations. Cases
and assessment exercises will be used to help students develop leadership competencies.
MGMT3404. Cross-cultural management (6 credits)
The trend of globalisation in business requires organisational members, especially managers, to work
effectively with international assignments, to collaborate with cross-cultural teams, and to manage the
increasingly diverse workforce, business partners, customers and clients. Therefore, managers need to
acquire unique cultural competencies that go beyond traditional managerial competencies. The main
objective of this course is to provide students with a solid basis for developing such cultural
competencies, so they can understand the challenges that might occur while working abroad and the
principles of effective cross-cultural management. The course aims to develop an understanding of key
cultural differences, and how these differences influence the management of individuals, teams, and
organisations.
MGMT3405. Organisational behaviour (6 credits)
A course on the concepts and key research findings which can help us to understand human behaviour
in organisations. Topics include motivation, leadership theory, group dynamics, morale,
communications, control techniques and organisational culture.
MGMT3415. Principles of entrepreneurship (6 credits)
This course equips students with the essential elements of entrepreneurship manifested in the issues,
challenges and rewards of creating a new business. The process in creating a start-up company, indeed,
the process of an entrepreneurial undertaking, will be examined, discussed and practiced in class in
order to provide students with some first-hand knowledge and experience in the subject matter. The
course also covers social entrepreneurship and corporate entrepreneurship / entrepreneurship within the
corporation.
Mutually exclusive: IIMT3682 IT and entrepreneurship
MGMT3416. Storytelling: global business communication (6 credits)
Telling stories to make sense of reality—or to shape it—is a human characteristic. We tell stories to
explain our actions or intentions, to create coherence amongst disparate events. Artists tell a story
through their works and in doing so, shape reality and our perception of it. Good leaders as well
commonly use storytelling to inspire, teach, and define their organisation values and culture. However,
good storytelling has rules and not everybody is a born storyteller. This course aims at developing
students’ business storytelling skills through the study of speeches, commercials, and other
organisational narratives from around the world. By reflecting on the importance of storytelling in
management, this course will help students become better leaders.
50
MGMT3417. The European business environment (6 credits)
In International Business, the study of the European marketplace holds a unique place. Each country
has its own history, laws, and culture, yet it is possible to look at the European Union as one market.
This course aims at introducing students to the European business culture through an interdisciplinary
approach: (1) History and Geopolitics: to understand how the European Union came to be and its
development; (2) Sociology: to examine different issues, such as cultural identities, politics, and ethics
in the European context and their impact on business relationships; and (3) Management: to analyse
practical issues in a European context.
MGMT3426. Employment and labour relations (6 credits)
This course intends to give an overview on the fundamentals of labour relations theories pertaining to
trade unionism, collective bargaining and workplace labour-management relations. Particular
attention is also given to the development of the labour market, employment pattern and labour law in
Hong Kong.
MGMT3429. Strategic human resources management (6 credits)
This course proposes to look at the basic concepts of human resources management (HRM) and its
application to Hong Kong. Emphasis will be placed on the strategic linkage between HRM and
corporate management in the context of business change and re-structuring. Comparative references
will also be made to practices in other industrial societies.
MGMT3433. Organisational change and development (6 credits)
The objective of this course is to explore the problems and issues involved in the management of
organisational change and development. Major approaches and attempts to conceptualise the
phenomenon will be examined in a critical manner. Particular attention will be paid to problems
arising from company formation, entrepreneurial ventures, company expansion and growth, maturity
and bureaucratisation, corporate failure and recovery. Major strategies for change will be examined.
MGMT3434. Human resources: theory and practice (6 credits)
The management of human capital, or human resources, has the potential to be the source of competitive
advantage in high-performance organizations. This course serves as an overview of the fundamentals
of human resource management.
Some of the students in this course may go on to careers in human resources, while many others will
probably go on to careers in management. Whether you become a human resources practitioner, or a
manager who works with or even manages human resources practitioners, it will be important in your
careers to understand the role of human resources in contributing to organizational effectiveness, who
human resources practitioners are and what they do, and what the state of the art is in human resource
management.
MGMT3435. Production and operations (6 credits)
A course to introduce a systems-oriented view of production and operations management.
Prerequisites: MGMT3423 Operations and quality management; and
IIMT3636 Decision and risk analysis I
51
MGMT3447. Applied organisation (6 credits)
This is a course on the design of high performance organisation in the modern world. Topics include
management structures of control and co-ordination, high-commitment work systems, design of
compensation systems, virtual organisation and the use of IT, organisational learning, organisational
change, organisation for cultural synergy, and organisation of international companies.
MGMT3457. High-performance work systems (6 credits)
This course examines the principles and practice of designing and operating systems of work that
combine the optimum use of technology with high performance and motivation. Topics include sociotechnical systems analysis, teamwork and networking.
MGMT3458. Human resource planning and career management (6 credits)
This course aims to provide an understanding of how the demand and supply of human resources can
be brought into balance, and people already in employment can be helped to develop in their work
careers. Topics covered include appraisal, counselling, development and training, and career planning.
Ways in which HRM managers can facilitate organisational learning are also examined.
MGMT3464. Leadership workshop (6 credits)
This workshop will explore key processes of leadership experientially in a simulated political, social
and business environment. The purpose is to provide students with knowledge in leadership theories,
models and frameworks, with opportunities to experiment with natural and new leadership behaviour
in a simulated context. Having gone through these processes in a collective, multi-staged exercise,
there will be opportunity for reflection, sharing of experience and integration of practice with theories,
in the presence of facilitators.
MGMT3470. Reward and compensation (6 credits)
This course addresses the design of reward and compensation systems and the contribution they can
make to the attainment of an organisation’s strategic objectives. Among the specific techniques
covered are job evaluation, design of incentives, performance-related pay, and non-monetary rewards.
MGMT3472. Team building programme (6 credits)
The objective of this workshop is to explore key aspects of group dynamics through a process of
experiential learning. The aspects that we shall be considering include leadership and communication,
planning and organising, decision-making and problem solving, and trust and team building in the
context of business and management. The activities you will undertake consist of a series of problems
to be resolved through the combined efforts of your group members. The problems are physical in
nature, rather than hypothetical and cognitive, and require the application of organisational skills for
successful and efficient solutions.
MGMT3475. Current topics in human resource management (6 credits)
This course focuses on current topics in managing a firm's human resource management functions. Indepth classroom discussion, management cases and applied business projects will be emphasised.
52
MGMT3476. Managing organisational change (6 credits)
Business organisations face unprecedented challenges today and managing change has become a crucial
factor in their survival and performance. This course introduces the specialised topic of organisational
change management. It provides students with an understanding of how organisational change is
initiated and sustained.
MGMT3477. Selections and training (6 credits)
This course will focus on the basic concepts of selections and recruitment, training and development of
different employees, and human resources utility analysis. In particular, students will be exposed to
different recruiting processes and the whole spectrum of training and development techniques, and how
they can add value to business success.
MGMT3478. Compensation and benefits (6 credits)
This course will focus on the basic concepts of pay and compensation policies for different employees.
In particular, students will be exposed to fundamental pay and benefits administration, along with the
importance of rewards and their impact on employee attraction, motivation and retention.
MKTG3501. Consumer behaviour (6 credits)
This course aims to help students gain an overall understanding of the process of consumer decision
making and the factors influencing consumer decision and behavior. This course emphasizes on
theoretical understanding of consumer psychology and applications to the development of marketing
strategy. Specific consumer trends and new tools for consumer insights will also be integrated in class
discussion. Students will be provided opportunities to apply the learned concepts and tools to marketing
situations through class discussions, case studies, and group project.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3502. Marketing research (6 credits)
This course will cover the broad principles of marketing research. Emphasis will be placed on the use
of marketing research as an aid to decision making. In this spirit, students will be introduced to a
variety of types of marketing research data. Students will be given the opportunity to engage in
practical marketing research-based exercises.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3511. Advertising management (6 credits)
This course will cover the theories, applications, and issues related to advertising management.
Attention will be paid to the process of advertising management, creative and message strategies,
traditional and digital creative tools, media planning and analysis, and evaluation of advertising
effectiveness. In order to facilitate the learning process, examples of advertising strategies and
techniques will be introduced in the course.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
53
MKTG3512. Brand management (6 credits)
What are the meanings of brand to organizations and customers? How to develop and manage brands
that benefit organizations while creating value for customers? What makes a good branding strategy?
This course will lead the students to go through a journey of brand development process to have an indepth understanding of strategic brand management. Through theories, examples, cases, and class
discussions, students will learn to think more logically, creatively, and critically about the strategies
involved in identifying, developing, managing, and growing brand equity.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3513. Consumer insights for marketing decisions (6 credits)
This course focuses on current topics in managing a firm’s marketing functions. Organised along a
seminar mode, students will explore real life experiences and exposures to firms, together with in-depth
intellectual challenges, through classroom discussion, the study of management cases and applied
business projects.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3514. Retailing (6 credits)
The objective of this course is to explore the problems and issues involved in the management of quality
improvement and market competition. Emphasis will be on the strategic aspects of quality and
marketing management, in particular customer value, quality improvement tools, quality concepts, and
the relationship of quality with different aspects of marketing management.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3522. Marketing in China (6 credits)
This course is designed to focus on selected topics that are of salience to managing firm marketing
strategies and operations in Mainland China or Hong Kong. It may include but is not restricted to
contemporary marketing issues related to branding, new product development, marketing hightechnology products and customer relationship management.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3523. Global marketing (6 credits)
This course shows how the basic principles of marketing can be applied to marketing problems across
national boundaries and within foreign countries. Attention is paid to the development of global
marketing strategies and to the different approaches needed to market consumer items, industrial goods
and services internationally.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
54
MKTG3524. Digital marketing (6 credits)
The digital economy has fundamentally altered the nature of and the scope for understanding human
behaviour and business practices. In exploring the digital economy, we cover the concepts, theories,
and applications of big data in marketing, with the overarching goal of understanding how to utilize
digital data to derive deeper and more meaningful managerial insights. Substantive topics include:
search advertising, social network analysis, data analytics, and human mobility. Lectures, discussions,
live data-analysis demonstrations, class data exercises, video pieces, and student-led project
presentations are major class components.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3525. Services marketing (6 credits)
The course examines the characteristics of service organisations and how this affects their approach to
marketing. Issues in the three dimensions of internal marketing, transactional marketing and external
marketing are examined, and the role of research analysed. Attention is paid to service culture and
service value and problems are illustrated by examples from Asian, American and European service
firms.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3526. Innovation and new product development (6 credits)
This course aims to help students gain an overall understanding of how to develop and manage
innovations and new products. The course introduces theories of diffusion of innovations, determinants
of successful and unsuccessful new products, and consumer perceptions of innovations and new
products at different levels of innovativeness. Building on these theoretical perspectives, the course
further introduces a systematic new product development (NPD) process from idea generation to
commercialization and analyzes how the NPD process should be adapted according to different levels
of product innovativeness. Students will learn and apply qualitative and quantitative techniques related
to innovation and new product development and management in this course.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3527. Pricing strategies (6 credits)
Profitable pricing is one of the most critical, but often the least understood managerial decisions.
Among all the marketing mix, while all other ingredients represent costs, pricing is the only element
that produces revenue. Firms rely on pricing to harvest its effort to create value for consumers, yet
managers often make mistakes in their pricing decisions. For example, pricing is too cost-oriented,
unresponsive to market change, or inconsistent with the product position.
This course covers both the economic theories of pricing, and the analytical tools for formulating
effective pricing strategy. This course also discusses commonly used pricing tactics, including some of
the newest pricing practices. The course is highly applied, and prepares students for pursuing a career
in marketing, consulting, and finance.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
55
MKTG3528. Marketing analytics (6 credits)
This course is about collecting and analyzing secondary data. The focus of this course is on
understanding the popular data structure, analyzing data and making sense of the results. We will focus
on understanding data relevant to marketers, the types of data available, different designs or methods
of data collection and analysis.
Course participants will learn to summarize, analyze and interpret the widely adopted data structure.
This course will emphasize on defining a research question and the analytic techniques per se. Lastly,
students will get a sense of the role state-of-the-art marketing research techniques play in the modern
organization.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3529. Social media marketing (6 credits)
With the total number of active social media users (spending more than two hours per day on social
media) reaching several billion worldwide, social media marketing has undoubtedly emerged as one of
the most important digital marketing tools. This course will help students understand social media
marketing from three perspectives—principles, applications and strategies. Social media and network
theory, popular social media strategies, and data analytic tools will be introduced. Upon completing this
course, students will be equipped with the knowledge and master skills which are essential to analyze,
build, and manage real-world social media marketing campaigns.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3530. Big data marketing (6 credits)
With marketers poised to be the largest users of data within an organization, there is a need to make
sense of the variety of consumer data that the organization collects, especially in the era of big data.
This course exposes students to essential tools including data visualization, exploratory data analysis,
as well as regression methods that can be used to convert raw data into marketing insights. For example,
these tools will be used to investigate the impact of marketing activity on aggregate data (e.g., sales)
and on individual-level choice data (e.g., brand choices). The course also includes a set of assignments
conducted using Tableau and Microsoft Excel, ensuring that students will acquire the needed
capabilities and skills to extract information from the big data available to them.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
MKTG3531. Strategic marketing management (6 credits)
This course is aimed to provide advanced undergraduate students with knowledge and experience for
the design of effective marketing strategies from a general management perspective. It examines the
marketing management concepts underlying both consumer and industrial marketing strategy and
tactics. Strategic marketing focuses on the concepts and processes involved in developing marketdriven strategies. The key challenges in formulating market-driven strategies include: (1) acquiring a
shared understanding throughout the organization about the current market and how it may change in
the future, (2) identifying opportunities for delivering superior value to customers, (3) positioning the
organization and its offerings to best meet the needs of its target markets, and (4) developing a
coordinated marketing program to deliver superior customer value.
Prerequisite: MKTG2501 Introduction to marketing
56
MKTG3532. Platform business models and the sharing economy (6 credits)
This course focuses on marketing strategies and emerging issues in platform business models and the
sharing economy. It covers the special features, pricing, customer acquisition and management, trust
building, ecosystem and governance of such business models. The course also analyzes the business
models of representative firms in several key sectors—lodging, ride-hailing, e-commerce, office sharing,
and online travel—and the future trends of platform business models and the sharing economy. In
addition to qualitative analysis, this course also discusses how data analytics are applied in these
businesses and the special skills needed for such business models. This course combines lectures, HBS
case studies, hands-on exercises, and student group project presentations. There are mainly two parts
of the course. The first part involves theory and analytics. Students will be provided with real data to
compute network effects, optimal pricing strategies and demand forecasting. The second part involves
applications of platform business models in several key sectors, including e-commerce, ride-hailing,
lodging, and online travel. Students are encouraged to come up with business ideas around platforms
and the sharing economy in different sectors, and hopefully they can implement these business ideas
after graduation.
STRA3702. International business environment (6 credits)
This course helps you to understand the macroeconomic environments of international businesses. The
course examines recent issues and trends in globalization through the lens of economic theories in
international trade, political economy and macroeconomics. In particular, we will explore the origins of
the recent rise of protectionism and populism in the US and Europe, the macroeconomic consequences
of financial globalization and crises, and the challenges and opportunities of international migration.
Combining economic analyses and case studies, we further examine the implications of these issues on
the aggregate economy as well as on individual companies. The course will equip you with skills to
independently analyze new issues and policies related to international economics. It also provides you
background knowledge for formulating better corporate strategies.
STRA3703. Multinational corporations (6 credits)
This course studies the multinational enterprise (MNE) and the theoretical approaches that have been
formulated to explain the growth and operation of this form of business on an international scale.
Recent general theories will be considered in a critical manner to allow judgments to be made on their
strengths and limitations.
STRA3706. China’s business environment (6 credits)
This course examines Chinese business environment from cultural perspectives and provides a survey
on significant and complex issues of Chinese business culture.
The course introduces theoretical frameworks for analysing culture in general and specifically for
understanding Chinese business culture. Central themes throughout the course include Chinese
corporate culture, culture factors embedded in business practices, and business culture reflected through
films and TV shows. The course also includes an introduction to culture comparison and an in-depth
discussion on exploring similarities and differences in business culture between China and other
countries.
STRA3708. A century of business in Hong Kong (6 credits)
This course, taught in a series of lectures and tutorials, will explore the trajectory of European and
Chinese business from the opening of Hong Kong as a free port in 1841 until the handover in 1997,
complementing approaches of economic, social and political history.
57
STRA3709. Applications of strategic thinking in business (6 credits)
Strategic thinking is the science of decision making in a strategic situation, where people’s optimal
choices are interdependent because a decision’s consequence depends on other people’s choices.
Almost all human choices are made in strategic situations and are therefore subject to the analysis of
game theory. This course will introduce basic concepts and principles of game theory and their
applications to a variety of real life business situations. The major contents include Prisoners’ Dilemma
and dominant strategies, simultaneous games and Nash equilibrium, randomised strategies, sequential
games and backward induction, games under imperfect information, and repeated games and
cooperation. The course emphasises examples and applications and does not involve heavy calculation.
As business competition shares a lot of similarities with military strategies, the principles of game
theory will be further applied to shed light on the Chinese classic, The art of war by Sun Tzu.
Mutually exclusive: ECON2214 Games and decisions
STRA3716. Competitiveness of Chinese firms (6 credits)
This course will focus on the competitiveness of the economy and industries of Mainland China and
examine China’s competitiveness on a regional, industry and activity basis. Globalisation and China’s
accession to WTO have presented unprecedented opportunities and challenges for China’s economy
and industries. As such, China’s position in the world economic system and its ability to move up the
value-added ladder is critical to its sustainable economic development. Given Hong Kong’s close links
to the economy of the Chinese Mainland, China’s economic future will heavily influence that of every
industry in Hong Kong. Through detailed analysis of a cross section of Chinese industries, the course
will help students to gain a better understanding of the current status of China’s competitiveness and
future dynamics.
STRA4701. Strategic management (6 credits)
This Strategic Management course will focus on the analytical and managerial tasks involved in
developing strategies that create value by satisfying customer demands and stakeholders’ interests in an
ever-changing competitive landscape. Successful business policies require a detailed understanding
of the overall environment of which the firm is a part as well as the ability to create value in order to
serve customers in the face of competition. The course uses business cases in a global context.
Students will be asked to apply the strategic management concepts and theories to address real life
business opportunities and challenges.
Remarks: Open only to students studying a major in the BBA programmes
STRA4702. Global corporate strategy (6 credits)
This course provides students with in-depth learning on managing multinational corporations across
various product, business, and geographic markets. Specifically, the course focuses on three central
issues that are critical to the successful formulation of corporate strategy: (1) the decisions on which
businesses to bring together inside the company and how they could create value, (2) how the company
can grow in different settings through acquisitions, partnerships, or internal development, and (3) how
the company manage its business portfolio. Overall, this course will highlight the criticality of making
profound decisions about the right pathways to firm growth. It will provide theoretical framework and
guiding principles for analysing practical problems at the corporate or group level as experienced by
managers.
58
STRA4703. Business in Latin America (6 credits)
This course is aimed at providing students with a profound understanding of the Latin American
business environment, preparing them for a career in international business. The course will address
the issues, opportunities and complexities that are associated with doing business in Latin America or
with Latin American firms.